
-2+2=0
1 day has 1440 minutes
1 out of 4 people in the world are chronically hungry.
100 degrees celsius is the boiling point of water
12:00 PM is noon
168 hours is a week
2008 to 2018 is a decade
24 is most of 30
3 meals a day is standard
35 percent of the world's food crops depend on animal pollinators to reproduce
4 feet is the closest distance of the 4 options
5 degrees Celsius is the coldest of the four given temperatures
50 degree  is halfway between 0 degree  and 100 degree
500 mL is a measure of volume
8 to 9 hours of sleep/rest is optimal for health
95 degrees Fahrenheit is the hottest given temperature
A Dyson vacuum would need electrical energy to function.
A Tiaga is a coniferous forest most found in the arctic region
A bee may be vital for basil as a pollinator.
A being may have more of a chance of survival if it can climb up to tall places
A biological entity is a living organism
A bird is an animal.
A bowl of cereal is an example of a mixture
A brick is a kiln fired piece of clay.
A brick wall is made of brick
A centipede is small animals that can hide under rocks for shelter
A chopstick might make a more musical sound.
A cockroach is an insect
A coconut has nutrients
A coin is often made of ferromagnetic metals
A cycle restarts when the last step is finished
A decomposer may thrive more on old turkey or dead animals.
A direct relationship means if one thing increases, the other thing also increases
A fallen tree may provide a thriving forest life.
A fish can be a tasty morsel to a dolphin
A flashlight can be used to create warmness.
A fly is an insect
A forecast is a places weather
A freezing temperature/point is 0 degrees C
A generator is gas-powered
A giraffe is a mammal.
A goat is an animal which has a shiny coat when it's healthy
A gymnosperm is a seed type
A home planet tremor is an earth quake
A hurricane is a violent storm that occurs over large bodies of water
A hurricane is characterized by high wind speeds
A koala's home can be destroyed because of exploding hot liquid
A lamps glow emits light
A leaf grows larger by absorbing sunlight
A learned characteristic could be learning how to do a cartwheel
A light switch is an example of a circuit
A locale is an environment
A log is a tree
A lute is a musical instrument
A mace has enough structural density and mass to cause enough damage to fracture bones
A magnet attracts metals like zippers.
A megaphone is the loudest option
A metal sword is an electrical conductor.
A microscope can act as a refraction light.
A mountain bike is a bicycle designed for off-road cycling
A mouse eats cheese
A navy captain would be on the open seas.
A negative temperature that gets higher means its getting more positive
A new moon happens once per revolution of the moon.
A new moon occurs when the moon is in ecliptical longitude with the Sun
A nickel could be a conductor for electrical energy.
A paint can can combust under pressure.
A pair of glasses is very thin
A pan on a hot stove conducts heat
A park bend would burn easily
A penny could be used as a conductor in electrical currents.
A penny could be used as a thermal conductor.
A plane has a lot of kinetic energy when it moves.
A plane'ts gravity pulls in other bodies towards  it
A plant would prefer Dasani water over orange juice.
A pressure wave causes sound
A processor of food has an electric motor.
A producer produces it's own nourishment
A pulley can be used to pull water from a well.
A raw material is required during production like labor and capital
A rose bush is a plant.
A rusty knife is a chemical reaction.
A saguaro cactus is a plant with xylem
A sedan has a car engine that must also have an oxidizer for combustion
A ship can navigate by always knowing which direction is north
A sign of the spring season could be flip-flops.
A sloth is an animal
A source of heat could be a mini flashlight.
A source of pollution might be throwing plastic in the ocean.
A species' habitat is those places where it can find food, shelter, protection, and mates for reproduction
A stopwatch can be used to track things in a certain amount of time.
A substance used to keep drinks cold is ice
A suburb can push organisms like tadpoles out
A tall bush is a tree
A thermal insulator stops heat from spreading.
A thermometer uses mercury level to determine temperature
A tire is an electrical energy insulator.
A toad has camouflage that would blend into a forest or field.
A tomato is consider a fruit and comes from a flower
A tree is an example of a producer
A typhoon can bring a lot of rainfall
A wet shoe will dry faster outside.
A wiped out animal is extinct
A wooden wall is a thermal insulator
A woodland is another name for a forest
A yard stick is 3 feet, while a meter stick is 3.2 feet make them close in size
A year is 365.3 days
A year will see about 52 weeks
A zipper is attracted to a magnet.
AAAs are a battery size
AAs are a type of battery
AIDS destroys white blood cells
AM and PM represent day and night
Above our heads is the atmosphere where water vapor gathers in the form of clouds
Acid rain could effect a car's color
Adding layers like a bandaid protects you from damage.
Adults that go through incomplete metamorphosis may have wings
African Driver ants lay a lot of eggs.
African wild dogs are predators of zebra
After nutrients are absorbed in the body, the excess is removed through defecation
Air and water are renewable resources
Air is clearer in the mountains
Air is not naturally polluted
Airplane fuel is made from oil
Akvavit is food
Al is aluminum
Alcor is the name of a heavenly body
Algae give coral their color.
All green vegetation contains chlorophyll
All living things breathe
All species need to make babies
Alligators have a wide nose.
Amoebas are single cell organisms thus specialized
Amur leopards is critically endangered
An adaptation that humans have created through the help of science is flying
An aluminum mine allows obtaining aluminum to make pop, also known as soda, cans.
An animal is an organism.
An arctic hare is white
An electron microscope can look at my common cold
An elephant ear is a large plant
An embrace can cause friction and slow an object down.
An example of a change in the Earth is when a volcano violently explodes and drops downward, becoming a huge lake of lava
An example of a disperser could be giving out an even amount of Fruit Loops to each of my classmates
An example of a hypothesis is Drinking sugary drinks daily leads to obesity
An example of an electric insulator could be tupprware
An example of an electrical conductor could be a coin.
An example of an innate instinct is a dog drooling when it sees food.
An example of an instinctive behavior is a mother feeding the kids
An example of camouflage could be a sting ray covering itself in sand
An example of combined substances could be cake
An example of electrical energy is audio speakers.
An example of feeling is clothes on your thighs.
An example of pollution is throwing plastic in the ocean
An example of replacing a natural resource like copper might be recycling ores
An example of thermal energy is drying our clothes in the sun
An increase in resources can lead to organisms experiencing overpopulation
An object that is stopped has no speed because it has been halted.
An orange in a tree has potential energy; it changes to kinetic as it falls
An organism that has an unusual habitat on it's back are carrier snails
An organisms being is its survival
An overgrown forest would be dusky or dark and in need of light emitted from a flashlight.
An owl is a bird
An unborn baby is likely to still be developing and be free from any skin damage
Animal poop helps with seed spreading.
Animals and Plants are organisms
Animals cannot survive in areas which have been destroyed
Animals cant reproduce if they are dead
Animals change their skin color to hide.
Animals need protection from storms
Animals that breed quickly will lead to overpopulation
Animals the exemplify relationship behaviors are killdeer.
Animals underground are safer than those above
Animals will die if they don't have warmth in winter
Annelida are decomposers
Annelids are earthworms which dig tunnels in soil
Anthophila is a clade of insects
Antibacterial soap is bad for water.
Arctic animas live in snow environments
Arizona is mostly desert
As I search among classifications, its groupings of materials, and properties, I may be looking for vitamins
As air chills, it may push out liquids.
As the earth tilts towards the sun spring comes
Australia is in the southern hemisphere.
BP disaster caused oil to leak into the Gulf of Mexico
BP had an oil rig explosion that leaked massive amounts of oil into the Gulf
Bacteria are unicellular so their cells are not specialized
Bacteria is present in death
Bacteria will build up on food out in the open
Bad odors contribute to odor pollution.
Bamboo has roots
Basil is a plant.
Bathrooms are where people get rid of bodily waste
Bats listen to their voice to guide them.
Bats use echolocation when catching their prey.
Bears can see in colors.
Bears have their fur get thick to prepare for winter
Bears use caves for housing.
Bees are pollinators
Bees are the main pollinators we think of
Bees hibernate in the winter to conserve energy.
Beeswax is a type of wax
Being deeper and wider causes it to have larger volume
Belt buckles are magnetic
Berries are good for your brain.
Bigger flowers have more nectar
Bikes have been used to grind coffee beans.
Bikes need screws to build them
Biofuel is still better than some alternatives
Birds can use their beaks to clean themselves.
Birds eat fish
Birds look for a warm climate when they go south.
Bitcoin consumes a lot of electricity
Blind people don't have the sense of sight
Blind people use their hands as their eyes to tell the shape of an object.
Bluebirds live in families.
Bombyliidae are pollinators
Brewer's yeast is a single-cell organism.
Brick is a thermal mass which allows insulation
Build endurance by exercising in small ways.
Builders changed the ecosystem forever
Bumble Bees inherited the behavior of hibernation
Butterflies have a strong chance of survival if predators decrease.
By using permanent things you can avoid waste from disposable items
CO2 can be trapped under blankets, and be deadly
CO2 contributes to the rise in atmospheric temperature
CO2 is carbon dioxide
CO2 is the chemical name for carbon dioxide
CO2 promotes plant growth, including corn
Cacti grow in the desert.
Cacti prefer dry environments
Canadian nightcrawlers are a decomposer
Canyons may still have rafting
Cape elephant sengis are pollinators.
Car exhaust in the gas phase
Caracas is in the northern hemisphere
Carbon Dioxide is present in crowded rooms like planes.
Carbon is one of the most common elements in organic matter
Carpet would stop neighbors below from hearing sound
Catfish are cannibal predators.
Cats eat mice and other rodents.
Cats shed during the summer.
Cats shed their fur in the summer
Caustic liquid man-made substances would be chemicals
Cellular respiration releases  waste
Changing an environment can sometimes wreck it
Chia is a seed, birds eat seeds
Chickens have feathers
Christmas occurs in winter, a season
Cigarettes have some radiation properties.
City-dwellers are human
Cleaning companies create a lot of waste.
Climate uses long-term statistics
Cloth attached to masts are ship sails
Clouds are very heavy.
Clouds are water vapor
Coal starts out as plants.
Cobalt is a ferromagnetic metal
Coke cans can be reused
Columbia is mountainous with loose soil
Comb Jellies use light to it's advantage.
Conservationism is the movement behind ecosystem conservation.
Consuming ignited tobacco is smoking.
Controlled burns help prevent wildfires by cleaning up dead foliage
Cooled magma is found at volcanos
Coral get their vibrance from algae.
Corn is hard to digest.
Corn will eventually be a product of human waste.
Covering a recently deceased living thing is more apt to preserve it.
Cow farts are pollution
Cows eat plants like cucumbers.
Craters are caused by space rocks
Crickets live in rotting trees in the forest.
Crop rotation is the cultivation of a range of crop types in a specific order
Crows have been seen using tools to acquire food
DNA contains chromosomes
DNA is a nucleic acid
DNA is the double helix
DVD players convert energy types
Daffodils are plants.
Dairy needs to be pasteurized before consumption
Daytime is part of Earth's cycle.
Dead organisms like rotting trees provide help for thriving communities in nature.
Dead trees are great insulators.
Death begins after life
December 1st is the day after November 30th
December is also during the winter in the northern hemisphere
December is the last month of the year
Deers are herbivores
Deers eat plants
Deers need water to survive
Desert lizards may sometimes resemble rock particles.
Different parts of the world have different seasons at the same time
Dihydrogen monoxide is commonly called water.
Dimming light bulbs are an example of an electrical circuit.
Dinosaur poop has been fossilized.
Dinosaurs are likely to be in oil
Displacement is the moving of something from its position
Dogs are living.
Dogs can taste things even if they barely chew
Dogs will get used to their new homes
Dominant genes are often visible in offspring
Doorbells are not related to light energy
Driving far away from something will make it look smaller
Driving in storms is dangerous
Ducks use their webbed feet to navigate.
Duracell's are nickel cadmium
During cellar respiration I might find myself with natural face water
During photosynthesis plants make their own sustenance
During the summer, temperatures are hotter
Dutch and other farmers used wind to power blades on windmills
Eagles are associated with America and is the animal on a one dollar bill and the long eared animal on a cartoon commonly eating a carrot and saying What's up doc? is bugs bunny which is a rabbit
Eagles might even consume sloths.
Early humans studied weather, time and animals to realize the length of a year
Earth has a magnetic pull
Earth is a wet planet
Earth is another name for soil
Earth is our planet.
Earth orbits the sun; a medium-sized star
Earth's magnets pull on compass needles
Earthquakes don't need a lot of time to be destructive
Earthquakes mean that people may need to move.
Eating food provides energy to animals.
Eating less means you will get smaller
Eating more than you burn off leads to weight gain
Eating something if you feel faint after a lot of activity.
Electric cars can have empty batteries and still run.
Electric currents cause Joule heating
Electrical energy is used to cook bread.
Elephant Ear leaves will receive a lot of sun because they are large
Elephants are animals
Encourage seeds to grow by using the heat from a table lamp.
Energy from the yellow dwarf star closest to us is solar energy
Energy stored due to the relative positions of charged particles or electric fields is electrical energy
Erosion can turn a statue to dust.
Erosion is a form of soil loss
Ethanol is blended with other gasolines.
Evaporation is a form of losing water
Evaporation is part of the water cycle, which repeats itself
Evaporation is when water rises from the Earth to the sky
Everything on the moon is seen in reverse order
Examples of deep sea animals are angler fish and frilled sharks
Exhaust from a car is a type of gas
Experiment with evaporation by using two mason jars with liquid in them.
Explosions destroy communities.
Extinction is not simply limited, it is literally no remaining
Extracting coal is a form of mining.
Eyes are used for seeing
F is a unit for the measure of temperature
Factories cause co2
Fahrenheit is a unit of temperature
Fe is iron
Fecal matter is a waste product
Feces is the organic waste expelled from an organism
Feed an animal more food to gain weight
Feeling is sensing fabric on the skin.
Fiji is a small island that will be swallowed by raising water levels
Finches love thistle like Sweet Sultan.
Finger nails harbor bacteria
Fire is a chemical reaction
Fire is fueled by wax
Fires, although dangerous can help with growth.
First an area of the ocean has to become land, then a wooded area can cover that land
Flashlights can have many uses.
Flauna are all animals
Fleas are insects.
Flowering plants need pollination to reproduce
Flowers contain plant cells
Flowers decompose when pulled from the ground.
Foil is shiny
Food contains energy for humans.
Food is needed with all animals
For density to remain constant, volume must increase if mass increases
Force is equal to mass time acceleration.
Ford was the person selling the product
Fossil Fuels can be ancient poo.
Freezing places tend to get a lot of snowfall
Frigate Bird are fast predators.
Frigid temperatures would require a source of heat for people to stay warm
Frogs have zero eardrums
Frogs start their lives in eggs in ponds.
From it's position the North Star is visible all year long from the North Pole.
Gas shapes do not stay the same
Geese flying from michigan to Florida is migration
Genes are produced during reproduction.
Get out of the sun occasionally.
Getting sick effects health
Glaciers have slow hidden rivers
Gold has more tightly packed matter because it is dense.
Gold is dense from water.
Golden retrievers pant
Graphite comes from rocks
Graphite is soft enough to be scratched by a fingernail
Greenhouses are great for plants like French beans
Groupers are fish
Gypsum is formed via chemical weathering from anhydrite
H20 is the formula for water
H20 is water
H2O accumulation is flooding
H2O fall is water falling
H2O haze is another form of water vapor
H2O is the chemical compound for water
H2O is the chemical equation for water
H2O is water
H2O is water and running it is a waste
H2O is water's chemical compound
H2O is water, a raw material
Halloween is never celebrated in summer
Hamsters would thrive if Eagles died out.
Harming an animal worsens its situation
Having a cucumber has a positive impact on health
Hawks are carnivores
Healthier people are in better shape and body building is a form of exercise
Heat conducts thermal energy.
Heat is necessary only in winter
Heat moves from a stove to a pan
Hexane boils at 69.1 degrees Celsius
Hibernation is an instinct
Hitting a child would have a negative impact on them.
Holding hands could be a source of heat.
Honey bees have 170 odorant receptors, compared with only 62 in fruit flies and 79 in mosquitoes
Honolulu has mountains
Honolulu is an island made from lava
Horny toads are reptiles
Hot water is best for cleaning your hands.
How many minutes are in an hour
Human contact creates heat.
Humans adapt to sunny environments by wearing sunblock
Humans adapt to warmer climates by wearing sunscreen.
Humans are capable of discerning the rhythm of audible elements when they reach the ear
Humans are made up of water and other matter.
Humans construction kills habitats
Humans feel hot on the fingertips
Humans poison the environment by dumping trash into the pacific.
Hummingbirds contribute to seed dispersal by eating flower parts
Hummingbirds help with pollination
Hummingbirds help with pollination.
Hunting animals will decrease their numbers
Hurricane Harvey dumped heavy rains on Houston which caused flooding
Hurricane Maria was a storm that occurred in 2017
Hypothermia causes sleepiness
I can measure my body with a tape measure.
I can see melting occur when I bake macaroni because the cheese melts.
I can use a ruler to measure the space between my toes
Ice is solid water
Ice wedging changes the Earth's surface.
Ice, such as glaciers, are a solid form of water
If I want to protect myself from the ultra violet rays I can wear a sweater.
If I wanted to maintain energy I could nap
If I wanted to make something move faster I could roll it
If a river is on a right-sloping area of land, it will flow to the right
If an illness compromises an organism enough, it can die
If north is to the right, then straight ahead is west.
If the soil is loose, oxygen can get in easier
If there's a lot of snow, its snowy
If you hold the compass sideways, one end of the compass's needle will point down into the earth, and the other will point up
If you want energy, consume bread.
If your hands are behind your back you can't touch an object in front of you
Immobile plants benefit from mobile animals taking their seeds to other locations
In an auction a seller avoid too large of a loss by setting a reserve price
In some fish, their fins may be used for balance.
Inantimate objects don't reproduce
Independence Day is in summer when there is more daylight
Indium is a metal
Infancy is a stage of the life cycle process
Ingestion means eating or drinking
Insects have six legs.
Insects often metamorphose
Instincts are behaviors or thoughts we are born knowing
Interviews are used to collect data.
Iron is Fe on the table of elements
Iron things are made of iron
Irons can take wrinkles from an item worn on the body to cover the skin from the elements
It gets dark early during December.
It is dark at night
It is safest to breathe unpolluted air
It takes 30 days for the moon to go around our planet
Its hard to find water in a desert
Jackrabbits have elongated legs.
January has shorter days.
January is a winter month
January is cold
January is in the winter
Japan dropped bombs on Pearl Harbor
Japan has Earthquakes
Jello changes from a liquid to solid.
John Muir advocated for protected areas
July is a month during the summer
July is in the summer
July is in winter in the Southern Hemisphere
June 1st is the first day of winter in Australia, which is in the southern hemisphere
June 21st is the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere
June is in summer and is 2 months after April
June is in the summer, November is in the fall, the daylight decreases by hours
June is the month after May
June is the summer in the USA
Jupiter has more gravity than most planets
Jupiter is a large object
Jupiter is a planet
Jupiter is a planet with rotations that cause cycles of day and night on the planet
Kangaroos have webbed feet
Knives can be used to chip away objects, like rocks.
Lake Erie is a body of water.
Lake Huron is a body of water
Lake Ontario was formed from a glacier moving
Landslides are caused by multiple causes
Landslides may effect communities.
Larger fins enable the fish by pushing more water at a given time
Larger spleens are an adaptation from spending most one's life in and around water
Lassie is a dog
Lava flows slowly.
Leaves are an example of biofuel.
Leaves falling from trees means the weather is changing, and it is time to wear a coat.
Lesser whitethroats are birds.
Lice can be found in your hair and have an incomplete metamorphosis.
Lifeforms require water to live
Light bulb production effects the ocean negatively.
Light holders are made from brass
Light must be present in order for eyes to differentiate objects
Lightening is a combustion of rain and ice.
Lions are predators which live near their prey, Zebras.
Listeria is a bacteria and when people are ill they often have a fever
Lizards eat bugs for nutrients
Locations that sit at a lower elevation are much more likely to be heavily affected by flooding than a higher location.
Long periods of time without nourishment leads to starvation
Lophiiformes include anglerfish
Loriciferans are the only animal that can survive without air
Lots of rain can damage the carpet.
Louis Pasteur did research on vaccinations
Low temperatures means not many species can survive there
Lumber comes from a tree which is a source
Lupus is a very negatively-impacting disease
MP3 players use buttons to turn on and off
MRIs are made of magnets
Magma has iron in it.
Magnetism can produce Isotope Creation
Make noises by tapping objects against each other.
Make sure to have an umbrella during warm fronts.
Making pasta by boiling water helps to see evaporation happen.
Many other birds, such as horned larks, quail and sparrows, sleep on the ground in dense vegetation
Many species have small amounts of magnetite to guide them as they migrate
March is Spring in the Northern Hemisphere
Marconi invented the radio
Mars is also made of rock, while the larger planets are made of gas
Mars is next to Earth
Mars revolves around the sun
Matter in the liquid phase fills the container it is in
Meadow Voles are hard of hearing.
Meat repairs cells
Medicines originated in forests.
Mercury is close to the sun
Merriam's elk is extinct
Metallica band members are humans.
Metals are metallic
Metamorphosis is complete at  adulthood
Meyer lemon trees have a sweet fruit
Microwaves heat up cold things
Mines are found beneath the earth
Minneapolis is in a cooler climate than Miami
Molecules have a neutral charge.
Moles are an inherited from parents.
Moles on the body could be an inherited characteristic.
Monkeys and humans are similar
Monocropping depletes the soil of nutrients
More deer, an organism, survive when there is more vegetation, which they eat to survive
More trees, less carbon in atmosphere
Morocco has a desert environment
Moving toward something will let you see it better
Moving will make you feel warmer
Mushrooms thrive on moisture, which makes the Amazon, a forest environment, ideal.
My father gave me the same color eyes.
N is nitrogen
Na, sodium, added to Cl, chloride, makes salt
Natural gas reacts with other substances to deliver energy and is being depleted
Naturally preserved organisms are called fossils.
Nature needs to be protected or natural resources go away
Nebraska is the coldest of the given states.
Nectar is a sweet liquid found in flowers
Neodymium is an earth magnet
Neptune is a celestial body
Neptune is a planet
Neptune is the roman god of sea
New Zealand is in the southern hemishere
New Zealand is in the southern hemisphere
New forests reproduce and replenish wood
Newton described gravity
Newton was a scientist that discoverer of gravity
Non mammals do not birth live young
Nutrients are required for plants to live
Nutrients from food and water are needed in order for an organism to survive
O2 is air which is measured with a barometer
O2 is oxygen
Objects get bigger as you get closer
Obstacles that might impede a dune are cacti
Ocean water has more mass and density than pool water
Oceans are water, boat travel on water
Octopuses use ink to defend themselves
Oil can be used once, not multiple times
Oil shale and gas are not renewable
Once it is considered very like that the entire population of an organism will reach 0, that organism is considered endangered.
Once you use all of something it is impossible to get more
One breed of penguins, the Galapagos Penguin lives in the warm waters off the coast of Equador
One example of changing an objects shape is making glass into a birdhouse
One seasonal change in the environment is low temperatures and less food in the winter compared to the other seasons
One type of electrical circuit that requires a switch could be dimming table lights
One way humans may be polluting the Earth without realizing it is by using antibacterial soap
One way to remember the method of Scientific Classification is to make a sentence
One way to retain your own thermal energy is to wear a sweater.
Only people with certain genes are capable of turning their tongue.
Organisms can die from being too cold
Orion is a constellation of stars
Ospreys have claws
Our inherited traits come from parents DNA
Our planet is Earth, which has a cold season in the northern hemisphere in the month of December
Our surroundings are effected in many ways during different seasons
Oxygen from the air is taken to the bloodstream
Oxygen is a gas
Paleontologists study fossils like old animal feces.
Panama is in the northern hemisphere
Pans could be made from ferrous metals.
Paper suitable for recycling  is  often used to produce cellulose nanofibers
Papua New Guinea is in the southern hemisphere
Parents are how we inherit things
Peat can help raspberry seeds grow.
Peat helps tomatoes grow.
Penguins are aquatic animals.
Pennies are made from copper which can be used as electrical conductors.
Peppers are a type of carbohydrate that contains peppers.
Perfume is a liquid
Pesticides can cause illnesses
Photosynthesis features single-celled organisms.
Pine can grow through concrete.
Places like, Osaka, Japan are prone to Earthquakes.
Plankton can produce as well as consume nutrients
Plants are eventually utilized in soil for newer plants
Plants are producers because they use the sun to create food.
Plants are unable to grow in freezing conditions
Plants can be upright thanks to the structural support of stems
Plants die in the winter
Plants die or become dormant when they decrease water intake in roots and branches
Plants get their nourishment from soil
Plants hold chlorophyll in their leaves
Plants like roses consume carbon dioxide.
Plants need light to grow
Plants produce glucose in the light.
Plants produce their own sustenance.
Plants use the sun for their food.
Plants use water and sugar to create their own sustenance.
Plants will lose their color in the winter
Plateaus are frequented by lightening
Play dough is a flexible container.
Play-Doh is softer than diamond
Pluto is the ninth planet
Pluto was changed from a planet to a meteor
Polar Bears have thick fur to thrive in cold weather.
Polar bears are arctic animals, that spend most of their time swimming.
Polars bears are white, camouflaging them in the snow
Pollution dirties the air
Predators crave the taste of the sweet flesh of prey like mice
Predators kill others
Predators poor vision makes camouflage work
Predators will eat their prey
Preditors adapt traits that help them catch prey.
Prey are easily enticed by light
Pull weeds by the root to kill them
Pumice is a kind of rock
Pumpkins sprout from seed
Puppigerus was a sea turtle
Putting a flower in food dye allows you to see how the xylem works.
Putting plastic over a plant speeds up the process of evaporation.
Putting something cool on your hot body will cool you down
Quartz are in hollow spaces.
RVs are made from iron.
Rabbits tunnel underground.
Raccoons are animals
Raccoons can see in the dark
Racquetballs are fast
Rain also occurs in other places like planetoids.
Rain helps communities thrive.
Recorders are sometimes electromagnets.
Recycling is another form of conservation
Red blood cells help your breathing boxes
Redeeming aluminum cans at a store or recyling center is one example of this
Redwood National Park is a forest of giant trees
Redwoods are a type of tree that could be found in a forest
Redwoods are trees
Reflection is due to how difficult it is for light to pass through it.
Reflectors are effective at night
Refraction is the manipulation of an object with light.
Renewable resources are environmentally friendly
Reproduction means a development of genes like a hairline.
Reptiles have small brains.
Respiration deals with the gases in our body.
Reuse fabric instead of throwing it away.
Reusing things means less trash
Revenge is an instinctive human behavior.
Rhododendron is a plant
Ride your bike in nice weather.
Rigel is a star, which produces light
Rising air pressure means better weather.
Rock is an aggregate of minerals
Rotting organisms smell bad
Rubber is the material in many shoes
Rubbing knees causes friction.
Rubbing rocks together for a while will make them smooth.
Salamanders might be found under garden statues.
Salt was currency at one time.
San Bernardino does not get snow in the winter
Sand clay is an inexhaustible resource.
Sand clay is an renewable resource.
Sardines are fish
Save water to make it last
School children often play a musical instrument by sweeping thumb across elastic band over a beverage carton
Science fact: as the sale of a product decreases , the amount of money made by the person selling that product will decrease.  However, sales could possibly grow with advertising.
Scottish moors are a habitat
Screws are a primary component to hold bike together
Sea Anemones look like flora.
Seals are born on waterfronts
Sediment occurs because of rain.
Sedimentary rock is hardened, old silt.
See evaporation in action by leaving two mason jars out with different levels of gatorade
See how the plant stem works by putting a plant into food coloring and water.
Seeds are the plants method of reproduction
Sense of touch is usually associated with hands
Shag carpets have more friction and are hard to slide on.
Shelter is one of the basic human needs along with food, water, and companionship
Shrews are small mammals eaten by raptors, which are a bird of prey
Single sound source reflects in form of an echo
Skin can protect your squishy bits
Skin contact could be a source of heat.
Sleep is needed to be healthy
Sleeping is healthy for humans.
Sleet is potentially dangerous.
Slow a person down by hugging them.
Slow dripping water leads to formation of stalactites
Smoking can effect your loved ones as well.
Smoothies provide nutrients for the body.
Snow fall takes place in many areas, but Arctic in particular
Snow storms make it hard to see.
Soda cans are made of metal
Soda is metal
Soil is like Earth's skin.
Solar Energy can power household appliances like a coffee grinder.
Solar energy might be used for making pasta.
Solid water is ice
Some Baby bats start hunting a month after being born.
Some animals are slow
Some animals use coloration to protect themselves.
Some cars use biofuel for energy
Some caterpillars use camouflage to look like poop
Some fish are carnivores and cannibals.
Some frogs may urinate on their eggs to keep them moist.
Some high places used to be underwater
Some human activities can create brackish water, like swimming tubs.
Some lizards form eggs inside themselves.
Some monkey babies can be raised with two parents.
Some people have an extra rib.
Some plants have developed the ability to catapult their seeds.
Some pupa may go into sand.
Some sea anemones are highly toxic to people like Sarah.
Some things are non mater
Something that could cause harm to an animal could be punches.
Something that may effect a child negatively could be punching them.
Sound is the primary use
South is traditionally where animals migrate
Speaking to a plant gives it carbon dioxide.
Spinach provides nutrients to grow.
Spring changing to summer means there is more daylight to work
Sprite containers are usually plastic bottles or aluminum cans, which are recyclable
Squirrels conserve nuts over winter
Squirrels eat edible flowers.
Stars revolve in the sky
Steak is from an animal
Steel wool is made of metal
Stevie Wonder is blind
Stingers can be painful
Stonefish are able to camouflage
Stonehenge is made of rocks.
Stones that skip across water are flat and smooth
Substances are specifically redesigned during such reactions
Sugars are important for a plant's diet.
Summer Solstice is in June
Sunlight is in an important factor in communities.
Swamps are uncultivated bodies of water also known as marshes.
Sycamores are trees and a tree's stem is called the trunk
TV screens are usually glass
TV was invented was invented on earth.
TVs require alternating current to function
Tea can boil
Tectonic plates are like a large jenga
Telescopes use mirrors to collect and focus light
Terns are cold weather animals.
Terra cotta is clay mixed together.
Territory is where an ecosystem is
Teslas are electric vehicles
The Alps are located in Europe
The American television miniseries about slavery is called Roots.
The Arctic Circle is cold
The Caribbean Sea is part of the Atlantic Ocean
The Earth is categorized as the third planet in our solar system.
The Earth is far away from the sun during the summer solstice.
The Earth is the third planet from the sun
The Earth's energy creates a magnetic field.
The Earth's surface is changed quickly by an earthquake.
The North Star is made of many stars.
The Norwegian government maintains a special storage chamber 800 miles from the Arctic Circle
The Sahara desert can exhaust someone's supply of water
The Sahara is a desert
The Sahara is a desert environment
The Sea of Tranquility is on the moon.
The Southern cave crayfish has no eyes
The amount of water a plant receives is much greater in the Spring
The arctic is desolate.
The batteries of a flashlight use chemical energy
The cause of a wildfire could be as simple as a ciggy
The change opposite to expansion is compression
The circulatory system is so long it could be wrapped around the Earth.
The color of an object is the result of the way the object reflects or emits light.
The colors are to mimic an owls eyes and scare smaller birds
The decomposition process will leave only the bones in the end
The earth is larger than other items listed
The first step in the food chain is always a producer like a green plant
The formula for BMI requires weight
The four seasons are winter, spring, summer, fall.
The human diet which only eats plants is vegan
The less food there is, the more conflict there will be
The light is then turned into energy
The lungs are in the chest
The lungs are the largest part of the respiratory system
The maillard reaction is a chemical reaction that gives browned food its flavor
The main cavity of the volcano is called the throat.
The mantle is solid bulk.
The moon has craters and smooth areas
The moon has dead volcanoes.
The moon is full just under a month out of the year
The moon is only about 238,000 miles from earth
The moon sees eclipses in opposite ways from the earth.
The more a species gets killed, the more likely it goes extinct
The mountains on the Moon are not volcanic.
The objects the push up through the deep black stuff are plants which provide fruit
The ocean floor effects the types of tides in different locations.
The only ball of burning gas in our solar system is the sun.
The only true conservation is never to touch it.
The presence of sunlight causes it to be daytime.
The pull between planets is gravity
The rain forest has a lot of vegetation
The scientific name for water is hydrogen dioxide.
The sea is a large museum full of many artifacts.
The seasons in the southern hemisphere are opposite
The stomach is an internal organ
The sun causes water to evaporate
The sun does not move, only our earths rotation aids in the view of stars
The sun gives off no light when its night
The sun heats mountains and desserts at different rates
The sun is a source of heat for the earth
The sun is good for environments in nature.
The sun is overhead at noon.
The sun is strongest at midday
The sun is the closest yellow dwarf star
The sun is the star that Jupiter revolves around
The sun is thousands of miles away and would require lots of fuel to venture to
The sun rising occurs once per day
The sun sets early in December.
The sun's rays produce heat.
The temperature changing may produce daisies.
The tongue is the speediest healer in the body.
The tree remains with its rings, they simply change size
The wind makes things smaller over long periods of time.
The winter solstice is marked by less light
There are echos in empty rooms when you scream
There are four main steps in the water cycle
There is a lot of water vapor in the air during a hurricane
There is less sunlight when under a tree
There is water in the Pacific Ocean
Thermal Conduction transfers heat from one object to another.
They didn't have sophisticated navigation technology in the 18th century
Things can move further away, even when approaching them
This change is to keep them warm, similar to a human with a heavy winter coat
Thorius adelos is an amphibian and forest is an example of land
Though seems rare, this is actually the case often
Throwing trash in the ocean is pollution.
Throwing trash into the ocean is also pollution.
Throwing your papers away is protecting the environment
Thunder clouds weigh quite a lot.
Tilapia is a type of fish
To avoid ultraviolet rays, cover up.
To pass on heat one might hold hands
To transfer heat from person to person use skin contact.
Toasting a bagel uses electrical energy.
Too much fat would be unhealthy
Toucans' beaks can be used for skinning fruits
Toyota is a brand of vehicle
Traffic flows through a green light.
Trains are vehicles
Transpformers blowing at 11 pm would make it dark
Trees are plants
Trucks are larger than plates and barrels and can hold more food
Try biking in sunny weather.
Tuna have bigger fins than seahorses
Tungsten is an electrical conductor
Tupperware is a thermal conductor.
UV light creates Vitamin D in humans, which promotes the creation of serotonin
Unlike bird eggs, reptile's eggs are symmetrical.
Use a flash light to mimmic the sun for plants.
Using seeds as fish bait can help spread seeds.
Vaccines are made of weakened agents of the virus or bacteria
Vegetables like cucumbers contain water and are moist.
Vehicle scraps contain ferrous metals.
Violins create vibrations or quakes that make sound.
Voles are cousins of moles
Walking away from where a compass needle points will lead you south
Warm liquid helps sooth the throat and esophagus
Waste and trash are found in dumpsters
Watch how a plant steam works by putting it in food colouring.
Water is a form of matter, freezing is a change of state
Water is used to keep up hydration
Water must be clean to consume safely
Water rises and falls twice a day
Water vapor helps habitats.
Waxy leaves are considered to have clothes.
We pollute by throwing things in the ocean.
Wear layers to prevent damage.
Wear protection when working with chemicals
Wearing thicker clothing like socks can protect my skin.
Weathering breaks things down.
Weathering can change the size of a statue over time.
Weathering could be changing a statue to dust
Wheat is the first cereal crop to be cultivated by man
When I hear news of a warm front I make sure to bring waterproof boots
When heading north, and needing to go south, simply turn around and walk the opposite direction
When mercury is placed in water, it sinks.
When there is less food, animals starve.
When you heat butter,  it melts.
When your temperature drops, you shiver
Wide tree rings mean thriving trees.
Wildfires passed through tree tops is rapid, and fast.
Wind Energy is re-useable.
Wind can be replaced
Wind can be used as energy to make pasta.
Wind can knock down trees and you can plant a new one
Wind can turn a statue to dust
Windmills are produced
Winter and Autumn are seasons
Winter is attributed with cold temperatures
Wisconsin is north of Illinois.
Without food, animals die
Without food, you starve
Without oxygen, animals die
Wood can be reused to make a dresser.
Wood is dried out to make beds.
Wrap a bowl of water in plastic to see evaporation happen.
Wrecking a spiders web means they cant catch food
Xenons are light bulbs
Xylem absorbs water from the bottom of a plant
Yeast rises as its temperature increases
You can build a bench from a tree.
You can create reusable energy with body heat.
You can find mountains in the ocean.
You can find worms on the crust of Earth.
You can look at the pores in plants with a microscope.
You can make a telescope at home.
You can make an instrument from a paperclip.
You can see an electrical circuit in motion when making toast.
You can support a growing plant with a yard stick.
You can use a flashlight as a source of heat.
You can use a mini flashlight for heat.
You can use a sheet of paper to protect your eyes from the sun.
You can use paper to help clean windows.
You can use paper to help wipe grime.
You can use plants like star anise for sustenance seasoning.
You cant change how short you are
You cant change how tall you are
You cant kill anaimals in yosemite park
You could find organic matter in a rabbit.
You gain more mass and are harder to move when you get older
You have to learn skills
You measure things like a phone with a ruler.
You might recycle plastic by creating beanies.
You might see light reflect off of mist.
You need to look at a solar eclipse indirectly or you will hurt your eyes.
You need to raise foods temperature to cook it
You will be hotter at noon due to the sun
Your car can be damaged by acid rain.
Your home planet is earth.
Your organs receive less water if you're sweating for long periods of time.
Your parents determine your height
Zimbabwe is in the southern hemisphere
Zippers are attracted to magnets.
a  a Sunda Colugo is an animal (and not a rhino)
a Great Dane is a type of animal that sheds fur
a Liger is an animal that can thrive when there is enough to eat
a Punnett square has at least four boxes
a Red Giant is a star
a badger is an animal
a bag of gas produces thrust by releasing gas at a high speed
a banana is a food item
a banner is a flag
a beach ball is an inflatable toy
a bearded dragon is a lizard
a bicycle involves motion of the wheels and pedals
a bike requires no fuel
a bill is another form of a birds beak
a biological trait is one that is inherited
a black-tailed deer may caution other deer of danger by slamming a hoof to the ground
a blizzard is a very snowy day
a bloated pond floods
a bloodhound is an animal
a body maintains this kinetic energy unless its speed changes
a boom in population is an increase
a boulder is very thick
a breeze is a form of wind
a breeze is wind
a bright clear day implies sunlight
a broken down body has less mass
a brook is a water source
a bulldozer breaks down a building
a bush can act as a shelter for small animals
a bush's role is that of a producer
a button is a switch
a byproduct of photosynthesis is oxygen
a campfire cooks meats which often results in them stiffening due to the proteins getting denatured
a candle is an item made from a petroleum product with a cord sticking out the top
a car is propelled by gasoline
a car weighs around 5,000 lbs
a caterpillar becomes a colorful invertebrate known as a butterfly
a cattail is a kind of green plant
a cave is used as shelter
a cavern is an underground chamber
a cell contains a nucleus
a cell phone can be magnetic
a centipede is an animal
a century is a period of many years
a change is an adaptation
a chevy 2000 is a car
a chevy ride is a vehicle
a child is an organism
a circuit can be copper or steel
a circuit is completed when it's closed
a circuit is needed for the bulb to work
a circuit is the path energy follows
a circuit made intact is completed
a clean air act is a pollutions standard followed by manufacturers, which are factories
a climate can change due to delogging
a climatic term is a season
a closed circuit is completed
a closed in area with no air will get too hot
a cloth satchel is an object which can be used more than once
a cold front brings colder weather
a cold front brings cooler temperatures
a command base is like a control center
a common problem removing body waste in the excretory system is having the runs
a compact with a mirror can reflect light that can be seen a long way off
a compass can track orientation
a completed circuit allows electricity to flow
a computer requires electricity to run
a continent is a large mass of land
a cord is an electrical conductor
a cows utter is the source of dairy
a crashing comet is closet and brightest before the crash
a creature burying itself in the ground is camo
a creature that eats flesh is a predator
a creatures belly size is an indication of their weight
a cup of hot tea and a glass of iced tea are some things which transfer heat
a curling iron is electrical
a curling iron radiates heat
a curved surface has a slope
a daffodil is a flower
a dangerous animal is frightful
a day is twenty four hours
a day-night cycle is a day
a dead tree will stopping growing
a decade is many years
a decade is ten years
a deluge is heavy rain
a desert is a dry environment
a displayed habitat is a zoo
a dog is an opaque object
a door knob is a simple wheel and axle machine that humans provide the energy to make work
a downstairs apartment would benefit from noise muted from an upstairs apartment
a drain spout causes water to pour into the soil
a drained lake is gone
a drained puddle contains less available water
a dresser crab is an organism that looks like its environment
a dry spell is a drought
a duplex is a house
a fat beak is used to crack nuts and shells
a fault line is a crack
a female platypus is a mother
a fibrous mass is an example of a trunk
a ficus plant release oxygen, as a step in photosynthesis
a fiery reaction is combustion
a filament is a metal thread
a fixed wing aircraft is a plane
a flag is lifted
a flashlight is portable and something that emits light is useful to see in places without light
a flood plain is a level area near a steady flow of water
a flooded habitat can no longer support chickens, which are animals
a flower procreates when pollen from another flower is deposited by bees
a flying plane increases it's distance
a forceful gale is wind erosion
a forest is a condensed area of trees
a forest is a large area dominated by trees
a forest is a spacious area mostly covered with trees and undergrowth
a forest is a treed area
a fortnight is two weeks, a month is four weeks
a fossil forms after a very long time
a fox needs rabbits for food
a freshly waxed car is a reflective object
a frozen liquid is no longer a liquid
a full moon is a phase of the moon
a full moon is a phrase of the moon
a full moon is at the opposite end of the lunar cycle
a full moon is one of the phases of the moon
a fundamental feature of all life is reproduction
a gain may be achieved by absorbing
a gale is wind
a giant sequoia is a tree
a girder is made with carbon steel
a good influence is a positive impact
a graduated cylinder is a container with a printed scale on it's side
a growing snowball is an object with increasing mass that will require a stronger person, who can exert more force, to push it
a gust is a strong wind
a habitable space is one which living things will inhabit
a harpsichord is an instrument that makes sound through vibrating strings
a heated wire would be hot to the touch
a hefty object is heavy
a higher level is raising an object
a higher reading mean greater air pressure
a hill create large amounts of resistance when pushing a car
a hippopotamus is an organism
a home is nearest where animals consume food
a horned viper lives in the sahara
a horse barn would contain horses
a horse is an animal
a hot engine makes surrounding materials hot as well
a human child is an animal
a human powered two wheel vehicle is a bicycle
a hurricane is a violent disturbance of the atmosphere with high winds
a hurricane is considered a catastrophic natural event
a lack of light is the only valid environmental change
a lake evaporates to form a cloud
a lake is a body of H2O
a lake is a body of water
a lake is a reflective object
a lake that dries up is gone
a landfill is a trash heap
a lawnmower is harmful to animals
a leaf absorbs sunlight to perform photosynthesis until a lounge chair obstructs the solar rays
a leafy shrub is green
a leaning tower is a building
a learned characteristic is a toddler banging with a stick while parent hammers
a leveled tree can't survive
a lifeless life form is a dead organism
a light bulb is a a blown piece of glass with a wire inside
a light bulb is plugged into the wall, which contains electrical wires that connect to the electric grid and power plant
a light bulb is unable to work if it is just on a shelf
a light bulb provides warmth
a light can be reflected from another room
a limit might be in place for deer hunting at the park
a lion is an animal whose food intake decreases when underfed
a loupe is a small magnifying glass
a lower elevation is a decreased elevation
a maggot to fly is also metamorphosis
a magnifying glass is an enlarger
a male and female are needed to reproduce
a mammals temperature only changes when ill
a mantel is over a fireplace, and that sounds like mantle
a marlin is a predator
a match can light up the candle
a match causes fire
a menstrual cup is reused while the alternatives are thrown away
a metamorphosis happens in a cocoon
a metamorphosis is a mutation
a micro-scratch test determines which rock formations are the hardest
a mild heat can melt items
a mile away is quite far
a millennia is many years
a mirror is a reflective piece of glass
a mirror is made of silicon and silver nitrate
a mixed drink is a mixture
a mode of conduct is the way an animal behaves
a mom is a parent
a monkey is an animal
a month has about 30 days
a motion thats frontward is going forward
a mouse is a prey to a cat
a mouse is an organism
a mouse is prey to other creatures
a moving vehicle needs friction to stop
a muddy road becomes dry when the water evaporates
a mug has a smaller surface area than a bowl
a museum can be shelter
a nail can be a non-contact force
a negative impact could be described as bad
a newt is an amphibian
a nikon device is a camera
a non example of hibernation is sleeping, naps, and comas
a notebook can be used to collect data
a palm frond is a flat leaf
a palm is a type of tree
a palm tree is a producer
a paper is folded several times to make a fan
a parakeet is not an anphibian
a peach pit is a seed
a period of millions of years is a very lengthy amount of time
a person can't see very well when it's dark
a person uses an umbrella when water falls from the sky
a person's diet determines nutrient levels
a persons flesh is their body
a persons insides are their body
a pet with flippers is sometimes kept in a bean-shaped container with fake tree
a phase change is a reversible change that doesn't change a matter's chemical makeup or properties
a phase shift is a change in the state of matter
a pickup is a vehicle
a pine is a tree
a pine tree is a plant
a plank can be used as an inclined plane
a plant light can produce sunlight type of lighting
a plant that has grown more is taller
a plasma star is in the process of having plasma on it
a plastic dinner container is a flexible container
a plastic tote is a flexible container
a polar bear's environment is white, like his fur
a pollywog is an animal that metamrphosis into a frog
a pond is a body of water
a pond is a water source
a ponds of less size in include no more pond at all
a positive adjustment is a positive impact
a power cable is a conductor
a powered metal fence can cause electrocution
a prairie is an environment
a puddle is a small body of water
a puddle is less deep than a river, lake, or ocean
a pulley uses a string or rope
a pulley uses pulling to move things
a pyramid is sloped
a quaking on a microscopic level can be vibrating particles
a radio produces sound but not light
a rain puddle is a liquid
a rainbow is usually seen after rain
a raised welt that has lasted years would be a scar
a rat is an organism
a rattlesnake is an animal
a raven is an animal
a raven is likely to migrate
a red maple is a tree
a refrigerator is an electric device
a refrigerator runs by electricity
a residence is a shelter
a resource that cannot be readily produced is nonrenewable
a revolution of the moon is 27 days
a river is a path of water flowing consistently
a room with a roof lets in sunglight
a rosebush is a kind of plant
a rotting ship is a nonliving thing in a marine ecosystem where organisms known as sponges can be found
a run over animal is likely dead or dying
a running boiler is hot
a running engine is how the car engine gives off heat
a rutted surface is rough
a safe is a heavy object
a salamander is an amphibian
a scale would show if your pet was overweight
a scope can view on a micro level
a screw is metal
a scuba diver usually goes a lot deeper than an average swimmer
a season is a division consisting of a particular weather pattern and hours of daylight
a sedan is a type of vehicle
a sharper drop in a slope is where water will run
a shift can fold rock
a shove is a push, or a repelling action
a shrew is an animal
a shudder is a vibration
a sidewalk is a hard walkway that runs alongside a street
a similar height is inherited
a single cell organism can't have specialized cells
a single tortoise cannot make offspring
a singular instance is one time
a six sided shape is known as a hexagon
a skunk smells bad
a slant is a tilt or lean
a slash is a wound
a sloth is an organism which moves slowly to conserve energy in order to survive
a soccer ball and the turf interact with each other via friction
a solar cycle is equal to 1 day
a solid changing to a liquid won't effect the weight
a space stone is an asteroid
a sparrow weights far less than a vulture
a species community is its population
a species is a type within a bird classification
a speedometer measures speed
a spider's web is made of a silk like thread
a spyglass can be used to emulate distance between objects being shorter
a squid tries to avoid orcas
a squirrel buries nuts and then retrieves them in the winter
a squirrel is a living thing
a stag is a male deer and timberland is a forest
a stalactite is a rock formation found in caves
a steak is sliced meat which rots when left on a counter for an entire day
a stove can boil water, which is a liquid used to make egg noodles
a stove in an electrical device
a stove is an electrical device
a stove is an object that appears white because it reflects all wavelengths of visible light
a sunflower is a plant
a sunny desert is warmer than a rainy forest
a switch closes the circuit using copper metal
a sword is made of metal
a symptom of food poisoning is an upset stomach
a telescope is a cylinder with mirros inside it
a thermal protector is an insulator
a thing that is in the air is is not caught will fall
a tight space is small
a toaster is a popular thermal energy conductor used to toast cool soft bread into hot toasted bread
a tongue is a warm object and metal can be a much cooler object
a tortoise moves slowly
a trail having tree dweller is a monkey
a tree filled environment is a forest
a tree hopper is a frog
a tree is a living thing
a tremor is an earthquake
a trip is usually measured in miles or kilometers
a vase is an object
a viola has strings which create vibrations that are perceived with one's ears
a vulture is a bird
a waiting person is not in motion
a warm kiss uses pressure and heat
a waterfall is a nonliving thing
a weaker bug is an organism
a willow is a producer using photosynethsis
a winter coat is another form of animal hair
a wolf is a living thing
a wolf's nose is on its snout
a world is a planet
a wren is a type of bird
a xapping energy is electrical
a yard stick is one meter
a yell is a shout
a yellow dwarf is a star
a yellow shirt reflects sunlight better than other colors of clothing
a youngling is young
a zebra is an animal
a zone condition is the climate
abandoning is leaving a habitat
abrasion is a form of friction
abrasion is another way to say weathering
abrasion is friction
abrupt electric discharge is lightning
abusive relationships are harmful relationships
accelartion is a change in velocity, which implies something is moving
access to roofless space provides plants and plant cells with sunlight
acid is a chemical
acid is not something to drink
acorns are a type of nut
acorns are part of a plant
acorns can be toxic to many animals
acquired characteristics are determined by environmental factors rather than heredity
acquired characteristics can happen in a dangerous place
acres are land that crops are planted in
active physical effort is exercise
active turbines produce alternating current
ad infinitum means over and over again
adaptation is changing to meet the enviroment
adapting to needs, such as hunger, can develop new traits
adding a water feature would increase available water
additional force is gravity
adequate sleep is required to be well rested
adjusting a thing is a change
adjusting is adapting
adjusting location is moving
adjusting shape and color is camouflaging
adjusting speed can increase speed
adobe is a type of clay
adobe is made of clay like brick
adults are at a later stage of the life cycle process and die of old age
adults have babies
advances in food transport is what leads to the ability to move food around the world
age markings on tall plants are rings in trees
aged enough to reproduce is adulthood
agreeable temperatures are warm
air flow can carry seeds to new environments
air goes from the head through the neck to the rest of the body
air is a gas
air is a mixture of gases which expands when heated
air is a natural resource
air is made up of nitrogen and oxygen
air motion is wind
air only begins to pass through the lungs at birth
air pressure is a measure of how tightly the molecules are pressed together
airfare refers to paying to take a flight, on a plane, through the skies
algae needs submersion
algae perform photosynthesis
all animals need to be warm enough to live in the cold without dying
all animals require oxygen
all items are made of matter
all living things breathe
all living things can adapt
all living things need water to thrive
all non conductive materials are good energy insulators
all parts of the plant together make a single plant
all plants are Flora
all shiny surfaces are polished
all trees have growth rings
alligators live in marshland
alligators mostly live in swamps
alluring is magnetic
along with wind and water power these are renewable
alter is to change
alteration is a change
altered soil is moved and lost
aluminium foil is a thermal energy conductor
aluminium is a type of metal
aluminium is reflective
aluminum can be in the form of trays
aluminum conducts thermal energy
aluminum is a metal
aluminum is used to make the shiny metallic foil paper
ammonites are fossils
amoebas are tiny and would be easier viewed thru the magnifying effect of a microscope
amphibians are carnivores
amphibians are cold blooded and can not survive the cold
amphibians that have hatched are tadpoles
an acquired attribute happens over the lifetime of the organism
an active insulator slows electrical transfers
an adult queen is female
an anaconda is an animal
an animal gets acquired characteristics from its parents
an animal is physically able to reproduce when it's in its adult form
an animal leaving an environment reduces the number of that animal in that space
an animal might place the seed in another location
an animal's fur forms their coat
an animal's health would suffer in an environmental lacking nutrients
an animals housing situation is its habitat
an animals tongue is the only place they can sweat
an anteater is an organism
an area without sunlight is cooler than an area with sunlight
an attribute is a characteristic.
an eagle is a bird
an eagle is the national symbol for the US, a salmon is a fish
an echo is a delayed reflection of a sound
an electric fan converts electrical energy into mechanical energy
an environment is also an ecosystem
an exact matching color is blue
an expanse of water is an ocean, forested land is a wooded area
an experience for the nose is a smell
an extinct species no longer exists on the earth
an extremely rapid surge of rising flood water that moves across usually dry land is powerful enough to lift a 250-ton object off the ground
an herbivore is an organism
an ice sculpture is a solid
an icy day increases skidding risk
an igloo would survive in a cold environment
an incinerator is the enviroment
an incline is a slope
an increase in eye size leads to better eyesight
an increase in fat leads to increased weight
an increase in water level causes things floating on the surface to rise
an inimical impact is harmful
an iris is a flower
an iron is hot
an island is close to the ground
an mp3 player is an example of a simple series circuit which has a switch in the form of a power button
an oak can replace itself also
an oak is a plant
an oak is a type of tree
an object gets warmer when heat is transferred to it
an object outside is more distant than an object in the same room
an objects configuration is its shape
an objects locale is its location
an ocean is a large body of salty water
an odor is a smeller perception
an old car would be fueled by gasoline
an omnivore includes animals in its diet
an open box containing tasty seeds would be a bird feeder
an open circuit fails to allow electricity to flow
an open circuit is an incomplete conductive path
an organism can also die without having enough heat
an otter can hunter
an oven can heat up a space
an umbrella is need when there is a chance of rain
an un-raked yard is covered with leaves, and worms will live there
an underground crawler is an insect
ancestors are family members
ancient crustaceans are often found in rock
and earth orbits the sun
andesite is a kind of rock
angler fish produce light in an organic lure
angler fish use lights to attract prey
angular and round are different shapes
animal can die if burned
animal groups decline when fires destroy food in ecosystems
animal need housing to protect them from bad weather.
animal populations do well when they have food and not too many predators
animal reproduction requires another of the same species to mate with
animals are biodegradable
animals are hunted
animals aren't aware that they are transporting seeds stuck to their fur
animals aren't producers, decomposers, or something else
animals burn calories to produce energy which in turn warms the body to a constant temperature
animals commonly called earthworms include annelids
animals do metamorphosis also
animals don't eat, drink or excrete while hibernating
animals eat food to gain nutrients
animals get hot in warm weather, which spurs the fur loss
animals in hot environments become dehydrated more quickly
animals in snow need to stay warmer
animals include zebrafish
animals lose less water, or retain more water, in the cold
animals migrate to where the food is
animals move beneath soil to avoid predators from above
animals need defense mechanisms to protect themselves
animals need to keep warm in the snowy season
animals need to mate in order to not go extinct
animals poop out seeds so they can grow again
animals receive energy in the form of complex carbohydrates
animals take in oxygen
animals that can't adapt go extinct
animals that eat plants rely on those plants to perform photosynthesis
animals that migrate are habitual creatures
animals use rocks to defend themselves from bad weather
animals who have lost their habitat will vacate
animals with live births don't lay eggs
another example of camouflage is appearing to be something else found in an environment
anteaters are animals
anteaters eat ants
anteaters primarily prey on ants
anthills are small spaces
anthracite is a resource known as coal
anthropogenic means man made or originating from humans
anti bacteria soap destroys good bacteria
ants are small
any nutritional material is considered food
apes eat insects
apparent means obvious or easy to see; increased
appendages can sense touch
apples are fruits
arctic areas are cold
arctic environments are chilly
arctic foxes blend into white snow
area near the edge of oceanic frontier is shore
areola are around nipples
arid means dry
arid means very dry
arid region is a desert
aroma means smell
aromas are picked up by a sense of smell
aromatic means to fill the air with a scent
art classes have many pencils
arteries transport nutriment
as a flower ripens it becomes more pungent
as an object losses it energy it becomes colder
as an object moves up through the air, the pressure on that object will decrease
as bacterial resistance to antibiotics rises, the ability of medical professionals to treat bacterial-related conditions in humans will decrease
as object become more clear they are better observed
as predators increase, harm can come to prey
as the earth makes it yearly orbit it wobbles closer and farther from the sun
as we enter winter the earth shifts away from the sun and the daily hours decreases
ascending is to go up
asphalt becomes extremely hot after asborbing sunlight
asphalt is a type of rock
asphalt is much rougher than snow and friction causes heat
asphyxiation is suffocation, which happens when air is removed
assets can be resources
assistance is what pollinators provide to plants
asteroids are made of rock
asteroids enter to atmosphere to make craters
astral beams are sunlight
astral bodies are celestial objects
astral light is the sun
atmospheric air delivers sound
atmospheric water droplets collide to form larger droplets which fall from the sky as precipitation
atomic bombs cause the ground to shake like earthquakes
attaching the conductor to a battery sends electricity to it
attraction is a preference
attributes are properties
avian creature is a bird
avoiding fire is to keep safe
ayers rock is in the southern hemisphere
babies need milk to live
baby animals cannot regulate body temperature well alone in winter
baby plants have fewer leaves than adult ones
back and forth is daily cycle
backyard vegetable gardening is a form of low-scale farming
bacteria are potential illness causing organisms
bacteria are single celled organisms
bacteria can be beneficial to humans
bacteria causes sickness
bacteria grows when food is not properly preserved
bacteria have cell walls and no organelles
bacteria is found in the gut, it is called gut flora
bad water can decrease animals populations
badgers are animals
baking has chemical reactions
baking is applying heat, which can melt matter
balances do not sort, classify or break things
ball meeting ground is hitting
balloons and balls are gas filled
balloons often go up when they're not held down
bamboo grows quickly
bamboo is a living thing
bamboo is a plant
banana peels are waste from eating bananas
bananas are a plant which co-evolved with bats to adapt for seed dispersal
banging drums is playing an instrument
barely using something is conservative use
bark and canopies are parts of a forest
bark covers trees and after it expands it adds a ring
barracudas are living
baseballs need force to be a home run
bass are fish
bass are fish which live in liquid; water
bass is a type of fish
baths add humidity to air
bats do not lay eggs
bats fly
bats live in caverns
bats navigate during flight use sound reflection
bats use sonar to navigate
batteries and vinegar have different properties
batteries are a form of chemical energy
batteries are a source of electricity
batteries provide electricity to the doorbell
battle is fighting
beach sand is mostly comprised of quartz
beakers can be used during experiments
beaks are on the front of a bird's face
beans are seeds
bears are living things
bears eat other living things too
bears hunt for honey
bears live longer by consuming a more varied array of prey
bears prey on fish in rivers
beavers are animals and there is more food available after winter
beavers building their homes, dams, cause lakes, H2O sources, to form
bedbugs are living organisms
beef turns from red to brown when it cooks
bees are a pollinator and dandelions are a flower
bees are pollinators
bees make honey
beetles are predators
before heaters, you had to burn wood
being a predator means catching prey
being exploded means you fell in harms way
being physically prepared to reproduce is adulthood
being safe is best with chemical splashes
bell peppers and hot peppers are related crops
berries grow on berry bushes
berries have seeds
berries have seeds inside
between them is the same place
biannually is twice a year
bicycles require continuous circular motion on pedals
big cats are nocturnal predators
bikes are pedaled when ridden
binoculars improve far sighting
binoculars look at things far away
binoculars would be useless for observing something near, close or beside the viewer
birches are in forests
bird sometimes regirgitate food to their young
birds are animals
birds are flying creatures
birds are living things
birds eat for nourishment
birds eat fruits from trees also
birds feed on seeds from flowering trees in tropical waters
birds get off the ground by flying
birds have no teeth
birds lay eggs
birds leave states when they migrate during certain new seasons
birds live in nests
birds migrate to find warmer places for the winter
birds often live in trees
birds such as geese relocate when weather gets cooler
birds with short beaks can't reach small spaces
birth is a stage in the life cycle process
birthing young is a part of reproductive behavior
bisexual reproduction is not a thing
black pips are black seeds
blaze up is heating up
blazing temps are heat
blizzards are examples of bad weather
bloated pools are flooded or overfilled with rising water
blocking in can be with fencing
blood transports oxygen
blood vessels transport blood
bloodhounds have the strongest sense of smell
blowing pipes is playing an instrument
blubber keeps the body temperature up
blue jays are birds
blue spruce are trees
blustery is a synonym for windy
boats are directed with ship wheels
boats travel relatively fast
body postures and layout can be inherited
body spray is gas
boiling changes a liquid to vapor
boiling is a method of treating water
boiling is when a liquid goes from a liquid state to a gas
boiling produces bubbles
boiling water has bubbles
bones are a part of an organism
bones are made of calcified material
books are typically made of paper
boom is a term used for population increases
boosted ecosystems have greater populations of organisms
boring is digging
both represents the dominant and the recessive
botulism is a bacteria
boulders are rocks
bouncing and reflecting are the same
braces are wired and metal
braille is reading by using your finger to determine the shape of the word.
brains are inside heads
branches are found in trees
branches are plant fragments
branches come from trees, a raw material
brass is a metal
brawn is strength
bread getting harder is a chemical reaction
bread is a carb
bread is a carbohydrate
bread makers are an electrical device that receive electricity through a working power cord
breaking down is decomposition
breaking rocks is weathering
breathable air is made of oxygen
breathing is respiration in animals
breathing is taking in air
breathing on a tissue dampens it due to breath's water vapor
breeze is wind
breezes disperse seeds
bricks are opaque
bright days offer the most visibility
brisk means quick
briskly is quickly
broccoli is a plant
broken bones are acquired
broods are offspring
bubbling water is boiling
bubbling water on a stove is boiling
buds are a part of the plant needing nourishment
bug killer is poisonous, and a pollutant
bugs are insects
bugs are organisms
building in a habitat harms animals
building nests is instinctive behavior
building requires the clearing of land.
bunkers are underground, which shakes during earthquakes
burned things are seared
burning is a chemical reaction
burning is when something burns
burning requires combustion
burns can cause scars
burying something means it has died
buses can use alternative fuels
businesses pollute often and are run by humans
butter is a solid that melts in boiling water
buttercups are plants
buying supplies is part of preparing for a storm
by using plants that need different elements the soils is not stripped
cacti are tough plants
cactus are plants
cactus perform photosynthesis
cake batter cooks when heat is applied
cake is not required for photosynthesis
calcium is a mineral
calibrating is making adjustments; adapting
calories are energy in food
camel humps hoard energy in the form of fat
cameras can record memories
cameras have tented lenses
cameras preserve images by recording them
cameras record audio and visual
camouflage is a misdirection
camouflage is used as a survival strategy against predators
camouflage is when you blend into the environment
campfires are hot substances
campfires contain fire
campfires produce light
can are made of aluminum
candles are lit by sparking a wick with fire
candles burn with the energy from oil
canines pant when hot
cans are aluminum
canyons are formed by rivers
canyons can develop over millennia
canyons have echoes
carbon dioxide is a gas
carbon is a base raw material
carbon steel will attract a dime
carbonation reduces flatness
carbonic anhydride is carbon dioxide
carbs are a sugar
card stock is recyclable
careless handling of chemicals can lead to accident splashing
carnations are flowers
carnations are plants
carnivores are dependent on prey who would leave during a fire
carnivores eat moles
carnivores' diets consist of animals
carpenter ants are a type of organism
carpet has roughness and friction
carpet is not a natural habitat
carpet would stop the sound of a guitar
cars and factories increase air pollution
cars are made of metal
cars can run off ethanol
cars make pollution
cars make the air less clean and healthy
cars run on gas
cars use motors to move
cashews are edible
cast iron stove use timber to produce fire
castles that are made by children at the beach are made of sand
catabolic reactions are a part of cellular respiration
catching prey is for nutrients too
catching up with prey matches fast speeds
catfish are an aquatic animal
cats are predators of rats and carnivorous omnivores
cats can eat too much perch
cats play with laser beams
cats will get used to their new homes
cats, dogs, and snakes don't need to eat any vegetables
cattle prods require electrical energy
caverns are dark
caves are dark
cease is a stop, or a decrease
ceased existence is death
celestial bodies are stars
celestial bodies include space rocks
celestial objects are where in the earth's atmosphere
cell phones are metal
cellos carry sound
cells are batteries
cells are greater than the sum of their parts
cells require support to keep them together
cells work together in large numbers
cellular respiration takes place in life forms
ceramic is reusable
cereal is made from corn
cereal is made of corn
certain aspects do not change even though state does
chameleons blend to avoid detection
chameleons can adapt skin color to environment
chameleons disguise themselves
change a car tire is a learned ability
changing appearance, or blending in with natural environment counts
changing to liquid is a change in state of matter
charcoal is used as cooking material
chargers don't have light bulbs
charring happens after the burn
charting likelihood is done on Punnett squares
cheese is dairy
cheese is made of milk
cheese is often in blocks that are shredded, grated, or shaved
chemical change occurs when molecular bonds are broken
chemical changes can produce smoke
chemical substances found in every living thing are nutrients
chemicals are removed including vitamin d
chemicals on food help keep bacteria low
cherries are the only berries with seeds on the inside
chest contains the lungs
chewing breaks down food
chia seeds are seeds
chickadees are birds
chickadees are birds that build nests
chicken contains protein
chicken is high in protein
chickenpox is a type of illness
chickens eat worms
chickens have two legs
chickens have wings
children inherit characteristics of parents
chilling is cooling
chilly is cold
chilly nights and warm days can cause dew in mornings
chimneys are on the roof
chimps are mankind's closest relative
chipmunks must store nuts
chlorophyll is found in chloroplasts
chlorophyll is green
chlorophyll is healthy to consume
chlorophyll is inside of leaves
chlorophyll is responsible for photosynthesis and undergo natural development is to grow
chloroplast contain chlorophyll which does the photosynthesis
chloroplasts are green organelles
chloroplasts are specialized compartments in plant cells
chloroplasts contain chlorophyll for photosynthesis
chrysalis are part of the metamorphosis process
chrysanthemum is a green plant - the others are not
chub is fat
chunks are filtered out of water
churros are sweetened with sugar
cigarettes can start a fire if not put out
circles are tree growth rings
circling up there is is flying in the sky
circuits need a plug to work
circulating air is moving
circulating is flowing
circulatory system is a series of passages
citrus juice contains acid
clams are in shells
clams live in oceans
claws are appendages from feet
clear mountain lakes reflect light
clearing brush is a first step in repurposing a natural environment for human use
clicks are high pitch sounds that can travel thousands of miles
climate can generally be relied upon
climate change is connected to the presence of carbon dioxide
climbing is an instinctive behavior
climbing is another way of saying rising
closing blinds blocks out sunlight, which contains UV rays
cloth pads are reusable
clothes need dryness to dry
cloud precipitation is rain
clouds are likely to precipitate
clouds are made of water
clouds are water vapor
clouds contain moisture
clouds hide the sun
clouds obscure the sun
clouds often turn from white to gray before it rains
clovers are plants, which are producers
clucks are vocal noises
clumps of gases are stars in the night sky
coal absorbs solar energy because it is black
coal and limestone are organic remains
coal and oil are raw materials
coal ash results from burning coal and is very harmful to breathe
coal is a fossil fuel
coal is a major source of energy generatino
coal is extracted by mining
coal will eventually run out
coal will one day run out
cobalt is a metal
coconut oil goes from solid to liquid in heat
cocoons are created after the caterpillar stage
cocoons are hard shells
coffee and cream mix well
coffee and creamer mix well
coffee can be hot
coffee is a hot substance
coke is substance made of carbon dioxide, a substance and sugar, a substance dissolved in water
cola added to things can change them chemically
cola is very acidic
cold blooded animals can't regulate their body temps without external heat
cold things are harder
cold water can chill a hot dish
colder climates are closer to the poles
coldness is temperature related
collecting and accumulating are the same
color can be described
color is passed down to offspring in reproduction
combustion is the same as burning
commodity is a resource
commonality means have in common
compass is a disc with an arrow
compass needles aim towards magnetic poles
compasses are used by pirates
compasses are used by seamen
compasses direct users north
compasses face north
compasses use magnets
completed circuits have electrical flow in lights
completing a circuit occurs on your phone
concrete can break
concrete is smoother than gravel and chafing is from friction
condensation happens most often as air cools
condensation is a phase change
condensation is a stage in the water cycle process when a moist film is on my spectacles
condensation often happens on glass surfaces
condensed liquid can form on a cold beverage
condensing precipitation is condensation
conducting is directing
conduction is when electricity is directly transmitted through a substance
conductors conduct
confetti can be made by tearing a sheet of paper
conserving resources is necessary as resources become scarce
constellations are formations of stars
constellations are star formations
construction activity can harm some animal species
construction nails are made of metal
contact is touch
continuous availability is renewable
controlling blood temps is a part of being cold-blooded
converging is touching
cookie dough is a food that gets cooked
cooking food reduces bacteria in it
cooking involves heating nutrients to higher temperatures
cooking is a chore
cooking kills bacteria
cool temps are in single digits
copious means many
copper and zinc are the two metal in this alloy
copper conducts electricity
copper is a conductor
copper is an electrical conductor
copper is an electrical conductor for wiring
copper is on the priodic table
coral is the most diverse of all marine ecosystems
cording is wiring
corn and peanuts are crops
corn and wheat are Americas biggest crops
corn can fuel buses
corn is a plant
corn is a plant material
corn is now available in Africa
corn slurry is starchy, and is used to make ethanol
cotton is a poor conductor
cougars eat other animals, like voles
counter cookers are often stoves
cows also eat plants
cows are an animal harmed by incineration
cows are animals that use receptors on their tongue to taste
coyotes are predators
coyotes are predators which prey upon roadrunners, a an animal that moves quickly to escape them
cranes are levers
craters are caused by explosions/impacts on the moon
craters are generally from asteroid impacts
craters are very large
crawling is not a sensation
cream and coffee are liquid substances
creasing is folding
creatures are animals
creeping buttercup contains nectar
critters are organisms
crocodiles are a major predator
crop rotation is changing which crops are planted from season to season
crops are destroyed by flooding
crops are grown on farms
crops need pesticides
crops would thrive more on grasslands
crows are living things
cruising is moving
crumbs are bits of food
crushing is crumpling
crying is a negative impact from harm, such as pain from being struck
crystal sucrose is table sugar
cupcakes are cooked
cupcakes may be cooked
curtains can be measured in inches and its components
cuts are acquired.
cutting down a forest destroys forest animals habitat
cutting down trees produces deforestation
cycles do not emit pollutants
cyclical means having a cycle, such as water has a cycle
cylinders with lenses make distant objects appear closer
daffodils are flowers with leaves
daffodils are plants
daffodils are plants, which are producers
dahlias are living things
dalmatians have hair that can be shed
damage is easier to cause to thinner objects
damming a river created a reservoir
damp gutters hold algae
dampness comes from water, which plants require to grow and live
dampness is water
dams are made of concrete
dams are manmade means of sourcing hydropower
dams stop or slow moving water
dandelions are food that deer can and will eat
dandelions are plants
dandelions are weeds which need to be pulled
dangerous bugs are a type of bacteria
dark spiders reflect less light
darkness is a product of less sunlight
darkness would provide no sunlight
dart frogs are poisonous
darts are pricks
dashing is running quickly
day is characterized by bird chirping
daylight ending sooner than normal happens on the winter solstice
daylight is solar light
daylight is sunlight and comes from the sun
daylight lessens as weather cools in fall
daylight provides luminescence in summer for a long time
dead creatures become natural gasses over time
dead is opposite from birthed
dead leaves make a crunching sound.
dead things no longer grow
dead-lifting is a type of exercise
death is an irreversible state
death is decay
death is leaving mortality
debris is waste
debris should be removed as a safety measure
decaying matter formes
deceased is dead
decomposed organisms provide nutrition to plants
decomposers can directly absorb nutrients through chemical and biological processes without any ingestion
decomposition is dying and rotting
decomposition is pulling things apart
deconstructed means breaking down
deconstructing nutrients is digesting food
decrease in water quality leads to a decrease in aquatic life
decreased visability means you may hit a car because you didn't see it
decreasing the numbers of a species decreases biodiversity
deduction is a decrease
deer are animals and decomposing bodies give off bad odors
deer are herbivores
deer are not producers
deer are one type of life on Earth
deer can transport seed
deer eat corn
deer sleep in grass for warmth
deerless means lacking deer, sometimes due to population declines
defecating is eliminating waste
deflection means to refract
deforestation affects inhabitants of the forest
deforestation is cutting down trees
defunct is not existing
delarships reduce food for animals
deliquesce means melt
delivery people transport things
dense and thick are the same
departing the world is dying
depriving an unwanted pest of its food source would cause it to go elsewhere
desert, plains, and forest are ecosystems
desertification happens when trees are felled without replacement
deserts are arid sandy places
deserts are dry
deserts are hard to take more water from
deserts are hot
deserts are sandy zones
deserts have sparse water and the chuckwalla is a lizard
deserts lack moisture
deserts lack water and have many insects
deserts, jungles, and oceans are three of the many kinds of ecosystems in the world
designating is the core principal of classification
desktops are computers
destruction of natural habitat such as rock lead to movement
destructive processes break down items
detached things are broken down from a whole
developing is growing
developing roots are growing
devices for locating directions are compasses
devouring means to eat
dew makes grass slippery
dewdrops are often seen on plants in the morning
diamond can cut glass
diamond is very hard
diamonds scratch other minerals
different areas have different climates
different birds eat different food, so beaks need to be different
different birds eat different foods
different crops means rotation
different species have different body parts
difficulty seeing in bad weather means low visibility
digesting produces nutrients
digestion dissolves food
digestion pulls minerals from food
digestive system is in the stomach, above the knees
digital thermometer use thermistors to measure temperature
dino remains make gasoline
dinosaur remains are part of oil
dinosaurs are ancient beings who are now fossilized
directing a rudder is navigating a boat
dirt comes from rocks
dirt for gardens need nutrients
dirt is a sediment
dirt is another name for loose soil
dirt is soil
dirt is soil, which is healthier when crops are rotated
dirt refreshed is soil renewed
dirtying agents are pollutants
dirtying is polluting
disadvantageously means negatively
discarded diapers would smell bad
discarding garbage does environmental damage
discomfort is a hurt
diseases that were once death sentences and epidemic are controlled by vaccinations
dish towels can be washed and used again
dishwashers heat dishes
disintegrate is part of decay
dispersing a seed means moving it away
dispersing seeds requires them to be moved to another location
distance between things makes them harder to see
distance causes reduced mirror image size
distance is measured in length
division of labor is essential
doe are female rabbits, or hare
dog paws would be body temperature
dogs and earthworms are different organisms
dogs are animals
dogs are organisms
dogs can eat rodents
dogs have eyes
dogs hunt victim animals for food, and will compete if needed
dogs look like they're smiling when they pant
dogs pant
dogs use smell to hunt
dogwoods and oaks are trees
doing laundry is a chore
dolphins are a life form that is part of some ecosystems
dolphins are an organism which use sonar to find resources
dolphins use echolocation and some swim in rivers
donkeys are warm-blooded
dormant plants will not bloom
dorsal is the back or top of an animal
drafts are a kind of wind
dragsters have combustion engines
drawings are not fossils
dribbling is dripping
drinking sparingly can conserve water
driving east to west will have the sun in your eyes in the evening
drizzle is a type of rain
droplets are moisture, or water
droplets repeating is rain
dropping a glass will break it
dropping a rock can strike someone
drought is a period of less than usual precipitation
droughts can dry out small ponds and other water sources
dry bushes can catch fire
drying your hands removes wetness
ducks swim underwater to find prey
duku is a yellow fruit with seeds
dumpyards are landfills
dunes are found in the desert
durability effects production required
durians is a fruit
during a prolonged shortage of water, a tree's ability to add extra tissue and grow thicks rings is slowed
during earthquakes entire buildings will shake along with the ground
during metamorphosis, moths change shape
dwindling implies running out of
dying down is to decrease greatly
dying is possible at the beach
dying out is to go extinct
dynamite going off is an explosion
each country has its own area
each season has a different climate
eagles have claws
ear plugs prevent sound from reaching the ear
ears are a body part
earth has a layer of stone
earth has more gravity than the moon
earth is our home planet
earth is the 3rd rock from the sun
earth is the blue planet
earth is the third planet from the sun
earth rotates on an axis,so star appearance shifts
earth take 365 days to revolve around sun once
earth tremors are a type of natural disaster
earth's axis determines where a hot summer is
earthquakes are strong
earthquakes can cause destruction
earthquakes can only occur where there is ground
earthquakes cause buildings to collapse
earthquakes last less than one minute on average
earthquakes make the ground quiver, or shake
earthquakes, tsunamis, and tornadoes cause changes much more quickly
earthworms are legless
easier flight is better
eaten food is turned into a liquid by the stomach
echoes are caused by sound waves bouncing off surfaces
echolocating does not use ears or nose to detect
echolocation can be done under water
echos happen in auditoriums
eclipses should only be viewed through a pinhole casting
edible items can be eaten
edible plants are safe
eels are prey, so sharks eat them
eggs and cake batter are different substances
eggs are incubated so they will hatch
eggs are laid because the young are in shells
eggs are made of calcium
eggs are white ovals
eggs deliver offspring
eggs have tough shells
eight month old tuna is spoiled
ejected means removed
electric cars don't need gas
electric fans use power outlets
electric power can be harnessed from moving air
electric reactions send pain notifications
electric torch is a flashlight
electrical current will traverse through wires
electrical energy can create sound
electrical energy consists of positive ions
electrical insulators are made of ceramic
electrical sockets provide electricity
electricity goes through a power cable
electricity is an alternate fuel source
electricity is conducted through metal
electricity is made in power plants
electricity is prioritized over gasoline in electric cars
electricity is the charge from an electron
electricity needs metal
electromagnetism is a non-contact force
electromagnets are used at car junkyards
electron flow is another way to describe electrical current
elephants are animals, carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas
elephants are very large, so a magnifying glass would be useless
elephants have larger eyes than ants
elks are hunted
elms are a tree that could be found in a forest
elongated means long
eluding foe is escaping a predator
eluding is avoiding
embankment is a slope
embers are hot remains of a fire
embers are the hot coals from a fire
emery boards file nails
empty pumpkins have no seeds
empty space is air
enduring means lasting
energy comes from a source of nutriment
energy escalating is increasing
energy holes are where batteries are places
energy is a reaction
energy moves life forward and onward
energy through metal is electric
energy type is changed when converted
enhacing is another word for increasing
enrichment is food
entire appearance is shape
entity replication is reproduction
environmental damage is pollution
environments are ecosystems
environs are a surrounding area
epidermis is a layer of skin
equal strength leads to equal force
equidistant is parallel
erasers are rubber insulators
eroded rivers calibrate, or adjust to new area
erosion can be described as displacing the land surface of the planet
erosion can cause loss of portions of a thing
erosion can happen when elements destroy a thing
erosion caused by rain
erosion is caused by movement not roots
erosion is the act of wearing away
erosions can make beachside property unsafe after a few decades
erossion is a form of soil loss
eruption happen under the sea
eruptions from volcanoes are emissions
escalate means go up
ethanol is a bio fuel made from corn.
ethanol is a type of biofuel
ethanol is used to make alcohol
evading is avoiding
evaluation is not a state of water life cycle
evaporated gas vapor spread out into the air which contacts a source of ignition can ignite and  explode
evaporation is a part of heat and warmth
evaporation is a phase change
evaporation is gas transformation
evaporation is the lessening of a water amount
evaporation is the state of a gas vaporized from a surface liquid under increased pressure and higher temperatures
evaporation is water leaving a place
evaporation is when liquid turns to gas
evaporation occurs with hot cocoa
even drinking water a thing can starve
every hour is repeatedly
evolution to survive better in an environment is a form of acquired characteristics
excess stored food leads to obesity
exerting is a force
exertion is force
expanded proportions are grown
expanding of frozen ice in a bottle will burst the bottle
expanding water cracks roads
expanse is size related
expansion also occurs
expire means die
expire means to die
expired creatures are the food of decomposers
expired is dead
expiring is to die
explosions can happen in cars
exponentially means to move faster and faster
exposure to sunlight is instrumental in optimal growth of indoor plants
extended portions of plants are leaves
extra rainfall would increase how much water a plant receives
extreme likelihood is a high chance
eye damage occurs when looking at eclipse
eye dangers include splashing acid
eyeless, or blind beings may observe texture through contact such as touch
eyes have rods
eyes use light to see
eyesight is needed to see colors
facade is a disguise
failing health is due to lack of nutrients
fake diamonds are made of glass
falcons have sharp beaks
fall and spring are seasons
fall starts in late September north of the equator or late March south of the equator
fallen trees are dead
falling from a tree begins with the leafs release
falling is when something meets the ground
farming a yard, such as with a garden, changes that environment
farming increases the amount of food
farrow are baby pigs
fat and weight is gained through eating more
father's pass down inherited characteristics since they are parents
fatness is weight
fault lines are planar fractures
fauna are organisms
fear of dogs is learned
feathers are a way to avoid being cold for birds
feathers warm penguins
feature is another word for trait
feeling is a sense, through touch
feeling toasty is feeling warm
feet are used to pedal a bike
felines are animals
felled trees are nonliving things
fennec foxes have several adaptations to live in a desert environment
ferrets are able to grab and move things
ferrous metals are magnetic thanks to the iron in them
fertilizer supplies nutrients to plants
fertilizers for certain crops could poison other crops or soil types
fewer pollinators means a plant has fewer offspring
fewer trees is a decrease in trees
fewer trees would increase carbon dioxide in the air, lowering air quality
fiberglass is made of resin and glass mat
fiddleheads, ramps, and dulse are vegetables
field fluid is cropland water
fields contain grass
fields provide sustenance
filament glows from heat
finding new homes is moving
finding the distance is measuring
fire is a burning combustion
fire is a chemical reaction
fire light is a good signal
fire-bellied toads are amphibians
first quarter is the next moon phase after a new moon
fish are prey
fish become inedible when water is polluted
fish do not give live birth
fish lay eggs when adults
fish live in lakes created by blocking rivers
fish that live in dark spaces adjust and become blind, even having no eyes
fishinghood is not a life cycle process...or word
fit means healthy
flamingos are animals
flamingos have webbed feet
flashlights charge by being plugged into outlets
flashlights make light
flashlights need power sources
flashlights use chemical energy devices
flat leaves help photosynthesis
flavors include tropical twist
flicking a lighter starts a fire
flippers are appendages that push liquid well
floar are plants
flocks relocate when they migrate
flood plains get water encroached
flooding expands the water over land
floods can block roads
flora are flowers
flora are plants
flora contains new plants
flora is plants
flounder are aquatic animals
flourishing happens when conditions are ideal
flourishing is thriving
flowers are found in vases
flowers are plants, and windy air is wind
flowers are reproductive structures
flowers grow from pips, or seeds
flowers need fragrance to attract pollinators
flowers poke through snow when winter ends and spring begins
flowers that attract more hummingbirds distribute more pollen
flowing is moving steadily
flowing liquid is not frozen
fluctuating means varying
flying creatures who pollinate are bees
flying south is also known as migrating
flytraps eat bugs
fog causes lowered visibility
foggy conditions are bad weather
foggy days are very moist
foil can be torn
foil can simulate earthquakes
foil is made from aluminium
foliage is anothe word for vegetation
food can include twinkies
food ensures survival
food is cooked in an oven
food is needed to grow
food is nutrients
food needs to be digested to be passed out properly
food passed its prime has spoiled
food provides nutrients
food that has turned is spoiled
foods give the birds nutrients
foot levers are used to pedal bicycles
force has to be applied to an object
force is what the pushing to cause movement is called
foreign plants need a different environment
forest brush is dry wood
forest camouflage is popularly used by humans to hunt forest creatures
forests becoming water sources is a change
forests can be removed by loggers
forests can have dry brush
formation is the same as shape
formations are shapes
formerly-living organisms are nonliving things
fornicating is a portion of reproduction
forward momentum is part of motion
fossil fuels are used in motorcycles
fossil fuels may run out
fossilized matter creates coal
fossils are from a long time ago
fossils are skeletons in stone
fossils are things that are solidified in stone
fossils can be found buried deep
fossils don't have recently dead organic material like branches or flesh
fossils form from peat or mud after a long period of time and are rock
fossils often get buried deep underground over time
foxes are predators that eat prey such as rodents
foxes will die if their food source disappears
fracking is the process of extracting shale
freckles are a genetic characteristic that is passed through DNA
freezing and thawing changes physical form
freezing is when solids are cooled from liquid to solid
freezing occurs at extreme negative temperatures.
freezing rain causes ice wedging
freezing temperatures freeze lakes
freezing winds are cold
fresh air is a result of photosynthesis
fresh made poptart is warm and will get less warm if touching something cold
friction is the resistance that one surface or object encounters
friction on the road slows a vehicle down
friction produces warmth
friction works against motion
fridge decorations are magnets
fridges are cold
frog babies in sacs are in eggs
frogs are amphibians
frogs are amphibious
frogs breathe on land as adults
frogs can adapt to lakes or ponds
frozen milk will be solid
frozen rainfall falling is snow
frozen water has a whitest color to it like snow
frozen water is water that is freezing
fruit has seeds
fuel efficiency is determined by a cars miles per gallon
funerals are held for dead people
fungi are decomposers
fungi growing on tree trunks decomposes it
fur is a major colored part on mammals
fur provides warmth to mammals and feathers provide warmth to birds
gales are composed of wind
gales are wind
gales are winds
gales are winds, on which sound carries
gales carry wind
gales of wind are a force
gar are a type of fish
garbage cans hold waste
garbage trucks go to landfills to dump trash
gas can be helium
gas containers are usually cylindrical
gas fills areas
gas is an element held in to the earth
gas is used to inflate balls
gas is what is blown into beach balls by mouth
gas on a fire has an exothermic reaction
gas stations, which sell gasoline, make less money when its use decreases
gasoline is a fossil fuel
gasoline is destroyed during combustion
gasoline is from crude oil
gasoline is made from oil
gasoline is made largely of hydrocarbon chains containing eight carbon atoms
gasoline is refined from crude
gasoline is used for cars
gasoline makes cars move
gasoline used decreases as travel costs less
gasoline will not charge an electric vehicle
gastro tract is the digestem system as a whole
gathered is collected
gathered steam condenses into water droplets
gathering is condensing
gazebos are outside
geckos are lizards
geese in autumn migrate, so they will be in flight
geese migrate
geese migrate for winter
gems and bottles can also refract light
gems are fractured
gems are prisms
genes can regulate foot size
genes house the DNA which holds the inherited characteristic
genes regulate head size
genetic components of flowers are seeds
genetics are considered before responsible reproduction
genetics are inherited
genetics pass on inherited characteristics
gestating precedes birth
getting better mileage means using less gas
gila monsters are living reptiles
gila monsters are lizards
gills allow animals survive in water
gills are slits in the neck of a fish
gills are specialized breathing parts
giraffes are living things
giraffes don't go through metamorphosis
giraffes have ears
girth is general width and size of flower
glacial melt has cause significant erosion
glacier are giant rivers of ice
glaciers are also called icebergs
glaciers are frozen water
glaciers are giant bricks of ice
glaciers are huge chunks of ice
glaciers are made of frozen water which halts the Earth absorbing it by reflecting it
glaciers are pillars of ice
glaciers compact rocks as it moves over them
glaciers force contact between rocks
glaciers make depressions that water can pool in
glaciers melting cause water level rising
glaciers moving tear up land
glaciers were giant walls of frozen water
glass buildings are greenhouses
glass can vibrate
glass is made from silica (sand)
glass is made from smelted silica
glass is melted sand
gloom is darkness
gloves provide a barrier
glucose is a type of sugar
glucose is another name for sugar
going downhill with wooden planks attached to boots requires a large amount of snow
going from ice to a puddle is a change from solid to liquid
going green means to avoid waste
gold conducts electricity
gone is nonrenewable
good bacteria maintain a health colon
good surf requires high tides
gophers live in tunnels
gouges are deep scratches
grabbing a wasp will cause it to defend itself
grabbing is a way to touch
graduated items contain unit markings
grain contains necessary nutrients
grains are food for some animals
grains are one of the most common categories of food
granite is a type of rock
grapefruit are berries because the seeds are on the inside
grapes have cells
graphite is a mineral
graphite is a stable carbon
grass and plants get wet with dew
grass provides more surface area thus more friction
grass snakes are animals
grass will dry out from lack of water in an environment
grasshoppers are food for creatures
grasshoppers are green
gravel has more friction than glass, ice and marble
gravity causes more movement of the matter
gravity is an unseen force
gravity moves things to the lowest level
gray clouds precipitate
grazing mean to slide against one another
grease is closely related to oil
green chlorophyll is needed for sun energy production
greenery is plants, which pull CO2 from the air
greenhouse effect does not cause green skies
greenhouses are hot and moist
greenhouses are made of glass
greenhouses create artificial environment from harsh situations
greenhouses protect from insects
greenhouses protect plants and flowers from the elements
greens harbor bacteria if unwashed
greeting cards are made from paper and trees grow in the forest
grenadine and soda is a combination of substances
grey is a different color than white
grinding gears cause friction
grizzlies are bears, which hibernate
grizzly bears are predators
grooming is learned behavior through observation
ground crawlers are organisms
ground is land
ground is the outdoor floor
ground material is rock, or stone
ground minerals are contained in soil
growing plants need carbon dioxide, which people breathe out
growing water levels occur when water amounts increase
growth in cracks is expansion
growth is maturing and developing
growth rings appear as round markings
guacamole dip requires that the avocado, a plant, reproduces
guavas are plants
guitar picks have weight
gulls are a bird
guppy are fish
gusts are wind
guzzling is drinking
gyms are visited to exercise in
h20 is water
h20 is water which is rain which falls on umbrellas which are cloth suspended on rods.
h2o is water
habitat is home
hack berries are the seed of a hack berry tree
hail is a type of precipitation
hair appearance is inherited
hair can be colored
hairspray is a pollutant
half a year twice is a full year
hamburgers and hot dogs are food
hamburgers and steaks are foods prone to containing bacteria and viruses
hammers drive in nails
hand size is an inherited characteristic
hard h2o is ice
hard objects found in fruit are seeds
hard shells are seeds
hard stones are rocks
hares are mammals
hares are rabbits
hares can carry seed long distances
harmful substances include bacteria
harsh precipitation is a part of environmental changes
harvested turnips are dead
hatching eggs is producing young
having 1 left of a species means they are on the verge of extinction
having croaked is to have died
having offspring produces a family
having sex is part of reproduction
hawks are predators
hawks lay eggs
head shape is inherited
healthier food is safe
heaped refuse is what is in landfills
heart racing is pulse increasing
heart rate is directly tied to pulse
heat and cold are part of breaking up stones in mechanical weathering
heat and pressure also form diamonds from carbon within that rock
heat application is a temperature change
heat can also be created by movement
heat can cook food
heat causes evaporation
heat creates warmth
heat energy raises the temperature
heat has raised temps
heat is energy
heat is given off when walking
heat is hotness
heat is required for the rock formation
heat is retained through insulation
heat is used to cook food
heat lamps provide light for plants
heat makes a room warmer
heat melts a candle
heat melts chocolate
heat melts ice to liquid
heat prepares burritos
heat starts the chemical reaction of separating the curds and whey
heat travels through channels
heating sugar long enough causes a reaction where it crystallizes.
heating up water will cause a reaction
heavenly bodies include stars
heaviness is weight
heavy birds should try losing weight to improve flying ability
heavy exertion uses force
heavy rains block roads
heavy sleepers get more rest than light sleepers
height is measured in inches
height is one aspect of the shape of a body
heightened speeds means increased
helically ridged pins are screws or bolts
helium is in balloons
hemispheres moving towards the sun experience summer
herbivores don't eat meat
herbivores eat vegetation
herbivores make snacks out of plants
hermit crabs use gills to breathe
hibernating frogs slumber for years
hibernating is a long slummber
hibernation retains energy
hibiscus is a flower containing nectar
hiding in bushes avoids predators
high surface area temperatures, arid conditions, land overuse and over-population can cause drought
high tide and low tide can be measured in the morning and evening
high wind speeds means heavy atmospheric movement which is useful if you generate energy from the wind via a turbine
higher elevation areas are more likely to have snow outside of winter
higher location effected less
higher temps are heat
his plan was to make lights work
hitching a ride equates to being transported
hitting a golf club into the dirt causes soil loss
hitting requires contact
homes are houses
honey is sweet stuff sold in grocery stores
honey makers are bees
honking is a sound
hooking up a charger to an outlet can complete a circuit
horizontal orientation indicates falling
horses eat vegetation
horses need circulation
hoses provide water
hot metal sears
hot plates are electrical
hot plates are heated
hot plates are portable stoves
hot plates are used in chemistry class
hot water for showers comes from a water heater in most homes
hot water is needed for washing
hot water over ice will turn the ice back into liquid form
hotness energy is heat
hotness is a kind of heat
hotness is heat
hotness is increased temperature
hotter weather attracts scorpions
hours are segments of time
house flies are insects
houses are made of brick
houses have rooms
housing developments are located closer to cities than farmland
hue is part of coloration
hues are colors
human astronauts have visited the moon
human contact is communication
human planet is earth
humanity is people
humans are natural omnivores
humans are primates
humans breathe into the air
humans breathe out carbon dioxide
humans build apartments all the time
humans building a mall would change the environment
humans buy crops to eat
humans can walk thanks to energy from sugar
humans cook their food
humans destroy habitat to grow corn
humans do not hatch from eggs
humans drink soda from aluminium containers
humans eat food
humans have ability
humans have thumbs
humans learn to swear
humans make garbage
humans provide mechanical energy to simple machines
humans reach adulthood upon maturity
humans take away animals homes
humans use showers
humidity 'feels' hotter
humidity has water vapor
humidity is found when heat and moisture are together
humidity is the amount of water vapor in the air
humidity is the presence of moisture in the air
hummingbirds are birds
hummingbirds are birds whose food source is nectar
hummingbirds are pollinators
hummingbirds are pollinators for trees and flowers
hummingbirds have sharp beaks
hummingbirds like nectar
hunted out is endangered in an area
hunting is not allowed in many protected areas
hunting limits protect the animal populations
hunting requires stalking
hurricanes are natural disasters
hurricanes are winds
hurricanes facilitate the water cycle
hurricanes have categories
hurricanes typically starts in South Africa and head toward the Gulf of Mexico
hush puppies are food
hybrid card get more mpg
hydrangea is a plant
hydrangea is a plant, with leaves that have transpiration
hydro mechanical wearing means cutting with water
hydro-erosion is a form of weathering
hydrocarbon gas mixture is natural gas
hydrogen chloride is a chemical
hypothermia is a medical condition that arises from loss of body heat
ice and steam are the same thing - forms of water
ice and steam are water at different temperatures
ice can deposit fluid, since ice is frozen water
ice causes cars to skid
ice cream melts when its temperature goes up
ice freezes at 32 degrees fahrenheit
ice hockey requires a smooth surface of ice without craters, as well as Earth gravity and oxygen
ice is a solid
ice is frozen water
ice is hardened dampness, or frozen liquid (water)
ice is much smoother than concrete
ice is solidified water
ice is the solid phase of water
ice is water's solid form
ice occupies more space than water in liquid form
ice particles are snow
ice ruins roads
ice takes longer to melt if salt is applied
ice wedging causes cracks in rocks to get bigger
ice wedging damages roads
icy roads cause poor traction
identical charges are magnetic
if a filament hurts to touch, it is hot
if a species of plant or animal ceases to exist on earth, the loss cannot be undone
if all the animals die it is called extinct
if an estimated age is know it can be subtracted from the current year to learn the estimate date of planting
if an species doesn't migrate, it never will
if closer means larger then the inverse is also true, further means smaller
if friction increases, heat increases
if in cold forest areas, they fly south for winter
if it rains, an area with no water will have water
if it's not night, the brightest thing in the sky will be the sun
if people have forgotten about the product, it will sell less than before
if smoothness causes fall adding carpet which are anot as smooth will add traction
if something is insulated for electricity, it's covered in a non metal material
if the river is hit with an extremely large amount of precipitation in a day it will flood
if you are not willing to listen than you can not follow directions
if you set fire to the natural gas it will burn
igniting will burn something
iguanas cannot survive in arctic areas that have snow
illness impacts only living oragnisms
illness of any kind hurts health
illuminating is what light bulbs do when they are turned on
illumination is light
impacted soil would be tight together
impetus is the force that moves the boulder
in polluted water, fish are not safe to eat
in the film, trash was stuffed into a car for fuel
in winter the days are short and in the opposite hemisphere the days are long
incinerating something is burning it completely
ingesting is another word for consuming
inhabited buildings gathered up produce light pollution
inherited behavior comes from ancestors
inherited behavior is passed on by genes
inherited characteristics are predetermined
inherited characteristics come from parents(creators)
inherited characteristics don't change
injury is harm
ink changes water color
ink is dark fluid
inky water is at ocean depths
insects are also known as bugs
insects are garbage eating decomposers
insects have six legs
insects live in all types of land environments
insects live in felled oaks
insects run from lizards to avoid being eaten
inside objects are particles
instead of electricity to heat homes, we are moving to wind
instinctive behavior has a fixed action pattern
instinctive behaviors are usually essential
instinctive behaviors are usually essential survival actions
instinctive behaviors are usually not learned
instinctive is genetic
internal organs are fortified by skeletal structures
internal tubes are phloem
introduce new water sources increases available water
invasive plants often overpopulate where they don't have natural predators
iphones use close circuits
ipods are electric devices
ipods are products
iris dust is pollen
irises are flowers
iron and steel are nonrenewable resources
iron can be magnetized
iron contains a large amount of magnetic materials, as do steel fridges
iron is Fe
iron is found in the crust
iron is magnetic
irresistible attraction is magnetic
is take around 365 days for the earth to circle the sun
island are new lands
islands form as lone masses of land
it gets more humid near water
it is an academic guess too
it is dirty underground
it is freezing in winter, where night comes very quickly due to lack of daylight
it is harder to see outside at night
it is hotter in the desert
it is more comfortable outside in warm weather than cold
it takes millennia for canyons to form
it takes pollutants from the air
it's axis is what cause the tilt or wobble
it's getting warmer whan the seasons are changing from winter to spring
it's harder to pick up a heavier weight than a lighter weight
it's hot in the summertime in the sun
it's important for a cactus to keep a cache of water, living in dry areas
items cause disturbance upon contact
ivory is white
jack rabbits live in hot areas
jade has waxy leaves
jasper is a variation of quartz and a windshield is made of glass
jello can be used to refract light
jello melts in warm temps
jello mix goes from liquid to solid when refrigerated
jellyfish don't have eyes, or a brain or heart
jerky is meat
jicama has nutrients
jogging is moving
jungles are forested ecosystems
jungles are green and forested
keeping hydration is storing water
keeping natural is conservation
keeping warm is important in frigid temperatures
kelp is a plant
kernels are related to seeds
kernels are seeds
kestrel and dragonfly migration patterns are tied together
keys are metal and conduct electricity
kickball requires using force on an object by kicking
kicking a balloon will increase its speed
kicking uses a foot
kidneys filter bacteria
kilns get hot enough to burn skin
kittens are mammals
kittens are not hatched
kittens do not lay eggs
knives are magnetic.
knowing temperature would indicate how to dress for the day
koalas are mammals that give birth
kool aid involves sugar within a water base
kool-aid is a liquid
labels are a visual form of communication
lack of heat means cold environment
lack of sweating could cause overheating of the body
lactic acid curling milk to create yogurt is a chemical change
lakes are bodies of fresh water
lakes rely on rainfall
lamps produce warmth
land is also known as soil
land is underwater during a flood
landfills are refuse facility
landfills are trash heaps
landfills contain heaps of trash
landfills may have loose pieces of trash flying around which is negative
landfills will be smaller the more recycling that is done
landslide have great effects on live ecosystms
landslide occur high up
landslides occur due to bad weather
larger litters increase population
larger minerals are stones and rocks
laser anemometers are a kind of anemometer
lasers can get you in trouble if pointed at planes
laundry soap is a cleaning agent and not a pollutant
laundry uses dryers which produce heat
lava builds up underwater
lava can be a side effect
lava from volcanic eruptions ruin the land around them
lava has a high temperature and objects are destroyed when they combust
lava is often cooled when it reaches ocean water
lava is very hot
lava melts cars
lava moves above ground
layers are the different levels of an object's makeup
layers on top of each other form mountains
laying a clutch is laying eggs for a bug
lead is the only part of a pencil with minerals
leaf colored is green
leaky pipes waste water
learned behavior is not instinctual behavior
learning is not always comfortable
learning to jump higher is adapting
leather is a renewable resource commodity
leaves are an example of prehistoric living things
leaves are bigger as their size increases
leaves are dead things that fall from trees in the fall
leaves are the greenest part of a plant
leaves can be moved by flowing water pushing them along
leaves contain chloroplasts
leaves need to be raked up in yards
leaves soak up light
leaving a mark is scratching
leaving a mark means one is softer then the other
leaving litter in forests is illegal because it harms nature
leaving refuse on the beach contributes to ocean pollution
lemon is a citrus
lemon is a citrus, which is acidic
lemon juice is a chemical
lemonade is mostly water
lemonade is water and lemons
lemonade mixes sugar and water
lemons are acidic
lemons are citrus fruit
lengthened glass tubes can be telescopes
less pollution leads to more breathable air
less roughness has less friction
less solar light is less sunlight
less water means water has been evaporated
lessen is decrease
life blends in a community
life matter is organic
lifeforms are living things
light brings about illumination
light bulbs use electricity
light can be seen and used to see the matter around us
light can be sunlight
light can be waves or particles
light can travel over distances when bouncing off reflective surfaces
light concentration creates light pollution
light ends sooner as fall approaches
light energy comes from chemical energy in batteries being pushed through wires
light energy comes from solar rays
light energy involves all light
light energy usually is from the sun
light from stars is an alternative fuel
light from the sun is a renewable resource
light has no mass
light helps to spot objects under a dark couch
light is needed to see an object
light is very fast
light may be reflected into a dark room using mirrors, which will brighten the previously dark room
light pollution is when there is more man-made light in an area
light shines off of reflective surfaces
light switches control current flow
light takes a few minutes to reach earth from the sun
light through a gem produces rainbows
light through diamonds can produce rainbows
lightbulbs use circuits
lightening happens in storms
lightening is electric
lighthouses have lights on them
lightning from a storm can start a wildfire
lightning is a form of electricity
lightning is a sudden electrostatic discharge from a cloud
lightning is electricity
lights are duller as light source gets further away
lights brighten areas
lilac is a light color
lilies are flowers, which are plants
limb number is inherited from birth
lime is a citrus which can cause chemical changes
limestone is a hard sedimentary rock used as building material and in the making of cement
limestone is formed from sediment
limestone is sedimentary rock which is  composed mainly of skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral, forams and molluscs
limestone, sandstone and granite are rocks
limiting hunting protects the animal popiulation
limits on hunting make it not the best place to shoot animals
line graphs can show fish populations over time
line graphs have ups and downs
lines in a tree bore will equal the number of rings in a tree
lions and hyenas both target herbivores on the savannah
lions are a large predator
lions are consumers
lions eat antelopes
lions need heat
liquefied soil is sediment
liquid amounts are greatest in oceans
liquid can drip
liquid cannot spread endlessly
liquid is wet
liquid matter can be measured in any shape container since its shape is variable
liquid petroleum is oil
liquidity is a liquid state
liquids assume the shape of their containers
liquor is made using condesation
live birth have nothing but skin on outside
live young need nursing
living term is life cycle
living things are vibrant
living things breathe
living things have cells, which have membranes, and many living things can cry
living things need air to survive
lizards are reptiles
lizards eat beetles
llamas are organisms
loam is a type of soil
loam is another name for soil
loam is soil
local flora is an areas plants
local flora is the environment
local forecasts are weather
locale is an environment
locales are environments
log cabins are often built in forests where it's easy to cut logs
logging causes loss of resources
logging causes prey population loss
logging changes the environment
logging companies chop down trees
logs are felled trees
logs are wood
logs are wood, which is a raw material
logs come from trees, which are renewable
long ears are an adaptation to living in high heat environments
longer hours of daylight means greater amounts of daylight
looking at something is also called seeing it
looking in a tree is how you can tell age
loose dirt is good for tree growth
losing numbers is slowing going extinct
losing space is to lose a habitat in some cases
losing status as whole means it is in parts
lots of sunlight can cause sunburns
low body temperatures is dangerous for life forms like cats
lower areas are the ground
lower pressure occurs near the ocean
luna is the moon
luna is the moon, which is a satellite
lunch breaks are often at noon
lunch is a meal, which provides energy
lung damage causes a more intense cough
lungs are our breathing organ
lungs are the primary element of the respiratory system
lungs in chest, part of the circulatory system
lynxes are animals
machinery give off heat when they work
maggots are decomposers
maglights are flashlights that emit a focused beam of light
maglites are flashlights
magma is an orange substance
magma is far below the ground away from humans
magma is liquid rock
magma is under the ground
magna is rock from deep down
magnetic attraction is a force
magnetic objects attach to metals
magnetic poles on earth helps direct humans also
magnetic rocks are attracted to magnets
magnetism can act without contact
magnetism can happen without human action
magnets are decorative fridge items
magnification makes an object appear larger
magnification only increases the perception of an object
magnifying glasses are magnifiers
magnifying glasses increase your ability to see
mahogany is wood
mailmen deliver in sleet
maize is another word for corn
make a pit stop means go to the flower
maladies are illnesses
malleable is soft
malls are built over habitats
malls change habitats
mammals breath with lungs
mammals have two sexes, male and female
mammals need warmth and have kidneys
man causes changes in environments
man is human
mandarins are fruits
manganese is a mineral plants use
many autistic people are particularly sensitive to strong smells
many factories pollute
many migrating animals are birds
many plants flower
many trees lose their leaves in the winter
many vehicles emitting pollution into the air may occur when EMT transports panting patient
maps show Earth's surface and sometimes have to change if things have shifted
marble is a mineral
marbles act as prisms splitting the light as it enters them
marking time requires noting, measuring
marlins are aquatic animals
mars is far
marsupials are animals
masonry uses bricks
masses in space are planets
masticating is chewing, in order to eat
match to a wick is lighting a candle
matching the outdoor temp will increase an environment temp if outdoors is warmer
matching your background is camouflage
material is a type
matter and mass are the same thing
matter that's written on is paper from wood
matter vibrating causes waves to flow through the air that we can hear
matured is adulthood
maturity is when reproduction may take place successfully
maximum pull happens when moon, sun and earth are lined up
mayflies are a kind of bug
meadows are grasslands
meal is prey
meal worms are insects
meandering air currents are jet streams
measurement concerning time is the amount of time between two specific points in time
measurement is through observations
measuring is done with a pedometer
measuring tells you how much of something there is
meat devourers are predators
meat does not have seeds
meat is not a plant
mechanical weathering breaks down stones
melting a body has to be done at a temperature higher than regular temperatures
melting dissipates ice
melting glaciers is caused be heat
melting ice is a phase change from temp
melting polar ice caps increases the amount of water in the oceans
melting polar ice caps raises the level of the sea
menacing skies hold dark clouds
menstrual cups are reused and pads and tampons are thrown away after a single use
merchants are suppliers
mercury can be removed from water
mercury is found in thermometers
merging with background is a way to camouflage
metal is a conductor
metal pipes on a wall is a radiator
metal tags are shiny
metals are in cars
metals include the components of a cell phone
metals like copper are good thermal conductors
metals, especially iron, conduct electricity
metamorphosis changes shape
metamorphosis is a stage conversion
metamorphosis is a transition
metamorphosis is an adjustment to a new body shape
metamorphosis is when an animals appearance completely changes
meters are a way to measure distance on a road
mice and rats are similar
mice are prey items for most mammals
mice have round ears
microscopes are aids to enhance vision
microscopes are commonly found in labs
might is great strength
migrating animals typically avoid snow
migrating for fluid means to look elsewhere for water
migrating is relocating to another place
migration is studied
milk and honey mix together completely
milk can be absorbed
milk comes in yellow cartons
milk from nursing is sustenance
milk is pasteurized
millimeters can be used to describe a distance
millions of years is a long time
minerals are lifeless matter
minerals are worn away by water movement
mines are explosive
mink are prey for wolves, which are predators
minuscule means small
minut defects can only be seen from close up
mirrors are made with metal
mirrors have reflections
mirrors reflect an image
mittens keep hands warm when it's winter
mixing and heating edible items is cooking
moistness is similar to moisture
moisture beads on glass
moisture being pulled in the air is evaporation
moisture causes humidity
moisture deprived logs are dry wood
moisture is water
moles dig tunnels underground, tunnels protect the creatures that use them
moles live underground
momentum is a form of forward motion
monarchs are pollinators
monkies are organisms
monsoons provide water to cactuses
moon's gravity pulling on the earths' seawater is the tidal cycle
mopeds get higher MPG than most vehicles
mopping the floor is a chore
more chainsaws allow more people to cut down more trees
more food extends life
more friction happens when tires squeal
more friction is rough on tires
more gasoline use causes more CO2 emissions
more harvesting means more crops have been planted
more hot levels makes more evaporation
more intense light is brighter
more intense means the lights would appear brighter
more laying chickens leads to more eggs
more leaves can photosynthesize better
more people pushing gives more force
more predators lead to less prey
more sizable is larger
more weight means more fat
most mammals have four legs
most tadpoles primarily eat algae
mother birds provide warmth through sitting on eggs in nests
mother is a parent, daughter is an offspring
mother-daughter is a parent-offspring relationship
motion happens when something is touched with push
motorbikes run on fuel from natural gas
motorcycles increase CO2
motorcycles use gas
motors are consist of vibrating matter
mountain peaks are at higher elevations and people shiver when the temperature is lower
mountain ranges can be called ranges
mountainous means containing mountains
mountains are a source of coal where mines are dug
mountains are at high altitudes
mountains are colder than the surrounding environments
mountains are raised
mountains are sloped
mountains are towering hills
mountaintops are elevated areas
mountins are old
move overcast days mean less sunny days
moved is transported
movement pattern is axis
moving charges include electrons
moving closer is decreasing distance
moving electrons is electricity
moving is in the form of running
moving regularly is exercise
moving things around can be described as shuffled
moving water is weathering
moving winds can cause good things to happen also
mulberry trees provide food for birds like Jays
multiplied hues can be a rainbow
munching is eating
muscle power is a force
muscle power relates to force
muscles are brawn
muscles are made of meat
muscular atrophy can waste away muscles
mushrooms are decomposers
mushy is a kind of soft
nails are for hammering
nails are used to fasten shingles to roofs
nascar envolves cars
national parks often aim to preserve native wildlife
national symbols are flags
native flowers can attract pollinators without being invasive
natural elements like wind weather materials down
natural gas and other nonrenewable resources are mined out of the ground
natural gas is a non renewable resource
natural gas is a source of power
nature is another name for the earth
nature places are environments
nature starts to grow everywhere in spring
natures floor is the ground
navigating is giving directions
neap and ebb are types of tides
necessity is something required
nectar is a product of flowers
nectar is liquid from plant flowers
nectar is tantalizing liquid for bees
neighborhoods have grass
nemo is a fish
neodymium is a rare-Earth metal magnet
nerves alert the body to pain
nerves alert the brain to sensations
nerves parts are microscopic within cells
nests are bed for young
nests are made of assorted materials
new habitable land in a sea is an island
newspapers are made of paper
nickel conducts electricity
nickel is made of metal
night time is dark
nightcrawlers are worms, which are decomposers
no clouds means no rain most of the time
no filter can cause more damage, though possibly not significantly more
no particle motion results in no power
no sun means no life on earth
no training is involved in instinctive behavior
non rough is smooth
nonliving things are lacking life
nonrenewable resources are depleted for good
nonrenewable resources cannot be replenished
north dakota to texas is a north to south movement
north is always in the same direction from the same place
northern hemisphere seasons are opposite from southern hemisphere
northern most state is alaska
nose shape is an inherited feature
nose shape is determined by genetics.
nosedive is decreasing
not all plants live in desert
notebooks are typically made of paper
noticing is done by looking
noting is seeing
nourishment is nutrients
nuclear reactions occur as atoms are split or fused
nuclear reactions produce heat also
number of fangs is a trait passed from a parent to its offspring
number of hatching turtles increases as more eggs are laid
nursing is an instinct
nursing is offering nutrition
nursing needs to take place or the offspring will die
nutrients are components needs to sustain life
nutrients are edible
nutrients are essential substances
nutrients are food
nutrients are life sustaining substances
nutrients are the foundation of food
nutrients in soil can collect in vegetation, a part of the food chain
nutrients possess nutritional values
nutrients sustain the life of organisms
nutriment is a phrase for food
nutriment is another name for food
nutriment is another word for food
nutriment is food
nutriment is nutrients
nutriment provides energy
nutrition is the food
oak pips are tree seeds
oak trees are such a tree
oaks are a resource that is natural
oaks are large trees
oaks grow
oats are a plant  and fiber aids in digestion
objects make light
objects that are substantial are heavy
obliterate is a synonym for destroy
observations come from viewing things
obtaining sustenance means the same thing as capturing food
ocean life in the water would be the first to be hit by the oil
ocean liquid is water
ocean water is a saline liquid
ocean waves are part of nature
oceanic placements on in ocean of platforms
oceans are salty
oceans are water
oceans can evaporate
oceans contain salt water
oceans cool the hot lava to make land
oceans have great surface areas
oceans reflect light from the sun
oceans reflect only blue light
oceans water is salty
octopus are cephalopods
octopus can avoid predators by hiding
octopus ink is a dark pigment
offspring are prodigy
offspring are the results of egg laying
oil based products are decreasing
oil cannot be restored in short time like soil
oil fields are the source of oil
oil is a fossil fuel
oil is an example of a fossil fuel
oil is composed of dead dinosaurs
oil is the remains on ancient animals
old glory is the American flag
old taco meat is waste
older style light bulbs are called incandescent
oldness is age
omnivores also eat meat
once a month is every four weeks
one after the 8th is the 9th
one can ride a bike instead of driving a car
one day contains 1440 minutes
one of the women needs to produce sperm for the child to be their biological child, which is impossible
one ring each year means one year old
one seventh of a week is one day
only females can create the egg
only mammals are born live
only mammals have hair
only mice are considered prey for an eagle out of the animals listed
only one sun is in the sunset
only planting one crop is not ideal for healthy soil
only some plants and organisms, like roses, can engage in photosynthesis
only some species of lizards live in the desert
only sunlight is renewable
only the pyramid has an angle
opposing is to go against, which slows
opposites attracting is magnetism
orange is a citrus fruit
orbit of the sun makes the seasons
orbiting changes the earth's position compared to the sun
orca have large fins
oregano is a plant
organ processed gas is air
organic matter in soil contributes to its fertility
organic things come from nature
organism decay happens alongside rot
organism meals make up food chain
organisms are all living things
organisms are living beings
organs will stop working if not protected by bones
ospreys eat perch
ospreys live in forests
ospreys live in the zoo
other planets have some water
other ways to travel exist
ounces are a measure of volume
our bodies are warmed by heat from the sun
our celestial star is the sun
our globe is the earth that circles the sun
our globe, the earth, fully rotates in a day
our local star is the sun
our only satellite is the moon
our only star provides solar energy
our planet is Earth and a tilted axis is a slanted axis
our planet is earth
our planet is the only source of nature
our visual organ is the eye
our world is the earth
our world, a globe, turns and seasons are a result
outlets are plastic
outlets provide electricity
ovens require electricity to work
over-cultivation depletes soil nutrients
overhead signs on freeways are made out of reflective sheeting
overhunting has a negative impact and is a loss of resources
overindulging in food is eating more food
overweight animals have fat stored
ovum are egg cells
owls are nocturnal
owls are nocturnal predators
owls can live in trees
oxygen and hydrogen form water
oxygen is a breathable gas
oxygen is air
oxygen is converted in the respiratory bronchioles to hemoglobin proteins in the blood cells
oxygen is not a pathogen
packing sediment tightly forms sedimentary rocks
pained is harmed
paint applied to things is an artificial color
paint is a liquid pigment
paint works by reflecting limited wavelengths of light.
painting nature scenes outside requires daylight
palm trees don't grow in extreme cold and freezing temperatures
palm trees have really large leaves
paper can be teared
paper is made from tree pulp
paper is made with trees
paper is relocated when water pushes it along
parallel to north is north
parched means dry and hot
parent flora is the originating plant
parental preferences can be passed down to children through exposure
parents are genetic contributors
parents can teach kids to cook
parents dna determine your body parts
parka squirrels are mammals who find an arctic environment to be pleasant
parking far away requires extra walking and walking is a kind of exercise
pasteurization involves heating something to a certain temperature
pasteurization is done on milk
pasteurization uses high heat and bacteria are illness causing agents
pastries are baked in an oven
pastureland is fields
pathogens are disease causing agents
peacocks have colorful plumes
pear seed will turn into a tree
peat is good for plants
pebbles are rocks
pebbles are small stones, which may contain iron
pecans are a type of nut
pedaling a bike is cycling
peeking is looking
pelt is an animal's coat or fur
pencils are made from wood
pencils are office supplies
pencils are used to draw
penguins have flippers
penguins live in cold, not in forests
people also shiver
people are in bed at night
people can skate on a pond after it freezes
people contact is communication
people drive cars
people get crushed by falling buildings in earthquakes
people get medicine from a pharmacy
people learn to talk
people leaving behind trash pollutes beach environments
people move towards radiators when they desire warmth
people use umbrellas in the rain
people wear masks because of pollution
people wear shorts when it's warm and noon is the middle of the day
peppers left in the sun absorb sunlight
performing tricks is a learned behavior
person is the force
perspiration is a form of sweating
perspiration is a way to naturally cool down
perspiration is another word for sweating
perspiration is sweating
pesticide kills bugs
pesticides are bad for water safety
pesticides are insect destroyers
pesticides on plant can be a problem without directly eating them
petro is another name for gasoline
petrol is made from fossil fuels
petroleum is gasoline
peyote is a cactus plant
phase of the moon is based on alignment with the sun and earth
phone chargers need electricity
phones may be measured with a ruler
phones use aluminum
photo film needs a dark environment to be processed
photosynthesis is self sustaining
photosynthesis provides the plant with energy
photosynthesis requires light
photosynthesis takes place in chloroplast
photosynthesis uses light to create nourishment
physical features are passed on through genetics
physical state is health
piano keys are ebony and ivory
pictures are images
pigs find their own food since they are consumers
pine trees are replanted as they are harvested making them reusable
pinnacle is the highest point of a mountain
piranha are aquatic animals
pit bulls are dogs that shed a lot
pits are seeds for plants
pizza is a food that birds will eat
pizza is food
pizza is toasted in a metal box through conduction of heat
planets are objects
planets rotate on their axis
plankton is the food it produces
plant food contains nutrients
plant offspring come from reproduction
plant take in light energy during daytime
planters are where plants grow
planting one plant one year and a different one the next is known as crop rotation.
plantlife includes plants
plants absorb sunlight energy
plants also store water
plants are flora
plants are flowers, which are producers
plants are green
plants are green life
plants are living things
plants are organisms with roots
plants are producers
plants are producers, which bud
plants are smaller than trees, so get less light
plants are verdant
plants die in the winter
plants die when its cold
plants don't move
plants expel oxygen
plants give off oxygen
plants grow out of the ground
plants have life cycles
plants make their own food
plants need soil for nutrients
plants need sunlight for photosynthesis
plants output oxygen into the environment
plants photosynthesize
plants release oxygen into the air
plants respire to use energy
plants use carbon dioxide during photosynthesis
plants use chlorophyll to make energy from sunlight
plastic comes from oil deposits
plastic melts when left on a heated surface like a hotplate
plastics going in special containers is recycling
plate armor is made of iron a ferrous metal
plateaus are flat high areas
plateaus are raised above sea level
plates gliding over our planet's mantle are tectonic
platypus are mammals
platypus are warm-blooded yet have tails, mouths and lay eggs, like fish
play doh can absorb other colors
playing fetch is a learned behavior
plethora means many
plugging a television in completes a circuit
plugging things in provides them with electricity
plummet is decrease
pluto is farthest away of the planets
pluto is not considered a planet
pluto was the 7th planet
polar bears are an organism adapted to a cold environment
polar bears are white
polar bears have fur
polecats are animals who shed
polished metal is shiny
pollen is a powdery substance found in the reproductive parts of plants
pollinating animals are small creatures
pollination is essential to the survival of certain types of plants
pollination occurs via badgers hunting
pollinators help a flower reproduce
pollution can be physically on the ground also
pollution damages the earth's atmosphere
pollution gasses raise temperature
pollution is bad for the earth
pollution makes it hard to breathe
pollution often comes from human activities such as mills
pollution results in an increase in greenhouse gasses, which can result in a rise in temperatures
polypropylene is Styrofoam as in cups
ponds are bodies of water
ponds can be depleted enough to were the animals involved just die off
ponds contain water, a natural resource
pong needs electricity
pools are filled with water and candy is made sugar
poop is a means of seed transport and dispersal
popsicles are made of matter
populace is population
populations of organisms grow in ideal conditions
porpoises have large fins
porpoises move through water the best
portions of a minute are seconds
pots and pans clank and vibrate
power plants create electricity
precipitation can be rain
precipitation causes water amount to increase
precipitation is falling liquids
precipitation is rain
precipitation is rainfall
precipitation is water
precipitation may be snow
precipitation privides water
predators and food are part of the environment
predators are confused when stalking prey that suddenly appears to be another predator
predators are hunters
predators eat other animals
predators eat prey for meals
predators hunt by chasing
predators kill
predators kill to feast
predators of octopuses include sharks
predators use creatures for nourishment
preferences include flavors
presciption medicine in water sources can taint the water
preservatives keep foods edible for longer
preserving means saving
pressure can also cause diamonds
pressure depends on weight
pressure facilitates compacting
pressure is high before a hurricane
pressure on a moving object creates friction
pressure to get something before someone else does is competition
prey are fearful of predators
prey is the food in the web
primary producers being plants make their own food with the help of soil
procepitation is not a word
procreating and reproducing are the same
produce comes from crops
produce is more readily available when transporting it is easier
producer organisms are the first level of the food chain
producers are plants, which can acclimate, or adapt
producers rely on themselves
progeny is an offspring
prohibited means can not
prolonged sunlight exposure results in a tanning or darkening of the skin
propelling forward is motion
properties include favorite animals
proportionality can be direct or inverse
protected areas are usually fenced in for protection
protected areas limit human access
protein heals the body
protozoa are single-cell organisms
provisions are food
proximity enables accurate vision
pterodactyls are fossils
puddles are water, dangerous to stand in while working on electricity
pulleys are in cranes
pulling a weed means removing from the ground
pulling them means they are removed from the soil
pulling your finger over a guitar string is called strumming
pulp is made of saw dust form grinding up trees
pulse is just an indication of your heart rate
pulse rate is the pulse
pumping iron is excercising
pumpkin pie spice is a mix of spices
pumpkin seeds are edible
pumpkins are often seen on Halloween
pupils absorb light to see
pupils dilate in dark places to allow more light to fall on the retina, resulting in surroundings appearing brighter
pupils need to be open for light to enter
puppies instinctively know to seek milk from their mother's nipples
pursuing is a component of hunting food
pushing back is to repel
pushing water out of its body means more power to swim
pushing water out of its body results in displacement behind a squid
pustules contain white blood cells that fought off the P. acnes infection, a pathogen
putting plastic in special containers is recycling
putting seeds in dirt is planting
putting up pictures is a chore
quaking and vibrating are the same
quartz can be any shape
quartz is a crystal that regulates electronic oscillators in watches
quartz is harder then glass
queso and guacamole are substances
quickness is a measure of speed
quivering is shaking
rabbits are consumers
rabbits are hoppers
rabbits are rodents
rabbits are small burrowing mammals
rabbits eat greenery
rabbits hide via underground nests
raccoons are animals
raccoons are scavengers
raccoons have striped tails
radiation has its effect on human skin
radiation is made by certain bombs
radiator fluid cools the engine
radios turn electrical energy into sound
radishes are plants
rafts allow movement after heavy rains
raging infernos are fires
rain can help and hurt organisms
rain can sprinkle
rain comes after warm, foggy, humid condensation
rain comes from clouds
rain fills up dam's
rain gauges catch the rain that falls
rain is essential for farming
rain is mainly h2o
rain is moist, as it is a liquid
rain is precipitation
rain is something you can drink
rain makes you wet
rain sprinkles down
rain, hail and other things from clouds is precipitation
rainbows are produced through multi-faceted sides
raindrops act as a pism
raindrops are another name for rainfall
rainfall is the amount of moisture gathered
rainfall is water falling from the sky
rainfall makes native creatures wet
rainwater in the ground dissolves limestone to form caves
raised portions of land are plateaus
raising is being pushed up
raising is the same as increases
raising warmth levels is increasing temperature
raking over is scraping over
rapids are a part of rivers
rare-earth minerals are magnetic
rattlesnakes are reptiles
ravaged stone is weathered or eroded
ravens lay eggs
reaction requires combining them
reaped is to gain
reaping something is getting it
recharging an iphone requires using a source of energy
recreating is to mimic
recurrence will repeat
recycling avoids waste
recycling can heal the environment
recycling is good for the environment
recycling is reusing materials
recycling means making something usable in some way again
recycling plastics is done by putting them in recycling containers
red hornets stingers are on their rears
redirect is another name for bounces
redirecting is dispersing
reek is a smell
refilling a box puts it to more use
reflecting is bouncing
reflection lets you see yourself in an object
refraction alters appearance
refrigerators need electricity to function
refrigerators, nails, and washing machines are made of iron
refusing food is a lack of eaten food
relocate is moving
relocated objects are moved, sometimes by push
relocating happens when animals move away
relocating is how animals may leave environments
relocating is to disperse
relocating seeds is dispersing them
remora and sharks are symbiotic
remora are scavengers
remora fish are symbiotic with sharks
remoras are ray-finned fish
renewable is endlessly available
renewable is to be retrieved repeatedly
renewable resources can be obtained without fear of using them up
renewable resources may be used endlessly
replacing a park with a city destroys an ecosystem
reprocessing is recycling
reproduction is positive
reproductive behavior can include returning to a certain place
reptiles are cold blooded and will die in colder temperatures
reptiles cant live in cold climates
resources being lessened cause migration
respiration is breathing air
respiration is completed by cells
respiration is what living things do
resting also give a positive impact on the human body
retailers sell product
reusing a resource is a way of recycling that resource
reusing gift bags reduces the amount of waste created
reusing items like grocery sacks reduces the amount of items that need to be recycled in the first place
reusing plastic is better than throwing it away
reusing things is a form of recycling
reusing things that would normally go to a landfill is positive for the environment
reusing waste lessen discarding the waste
rhinoceros can die
ribs are part of the skeletal system
ribs showing is underweight
ripping and tearing are the same
ripping is akin to tearing
ripples are formed by vibrations
rise is an increase in activity
river fluid is water
river stones are smoothed by weathering
rivers are flowing liquid
rivers are made of water
rivers dry up sometimes
rivers flood when too much rain happens
rivers have rushing water
rivers often meet at an estuary
rivers often tumble rocks
roads can be weathered down and degraded
robins are birds
robins are birds and grasshoppers are insects
robins don't have webbed feet
robots are not living things
robots require computer commands
rock folding causes mountains in general
rock folding is caused by plate shifting
rock is stony
rock tumblers contain stones that constantly collide to remove any rough edges
rocket boosts produce a great deal of force
rocks are crystalline solids
rocks are found in mines
rocks are hit against other rocks to make fires, which will break them down by mechanical means
rocks are stones
rocks are tools used by otters
rocks can be the opposite type, smooth from water
rocks contact each other in rivers
rocks have metal in them
rocks in a landslide can kill hikers
rocks in a landslide crush anyone under it
rocks piling up creates mountains
rodents are a source of food for predators
roe are fish eggs
rolling out is spreading or increasing
roofing nails are made of iron
room heaters increase room temperature
root hair cells are underground so photosynthesis does not occur
roots are found on bamboo
roots are housed in soil
roots are in soil area
roots provide resilience in the wind
roses are flowers
roses are plants
roses have a stem
roses reproduce using pollen
rotating feet on pedals is pedaling a bike
rotating is orbiting
rotating is turning
rotation of planet causes setting of sun
rotations are necessary for bodies to be planets
rotting happens after something dies
rough to spot is difficult to see
roughage is grass, hay and silage
rubber bands can produce musical sounds
rubber insulates from electrical heat
rubbing of mechanical parts induces friction and gives off heat
rubbing your palms together causes friction
ruination is destruction
ruining the composition can alter the identity
running a full dishwasher saves water, a natural resource
running faster requires more energy
running quicker requires more energy
running requires energy
running times are effectively measured by stopwatches
runoff makes people sick
rustling air is air motion
safeguarding is protecting
safety glasses prevent harm to the eyes from chemicals like bleach
safety goggles are a form of personal protection equipment
safety goggles are desired when in dangerous situations
said organism is that animal
salamanders lay eggs
salamanders look like lizards
salmon are fish
salmon is an aquatic animal
salt dissolves in water
salt is not corn
salt is sodium
salt water is able to be filtered to drink
salt water is sourced from the ocean
saltwater is the ocean
salvage means save/rescue for reuse
sand is composed of silica
sand is not an element used in photosynthesis
sand is small rock particles
sand is weathered pieces of stone
sand paper is rougher than plain paper
sand, roxys and pearl are not found in rocks
sandbars requires sediment deposits
sandpaper is known for rough texture
sands is tiny grains of rock
sandy land is a dry encironment
sapling seeds are tree seeds
sardines are fish
satanic leaf-tailed geckos are an organism which looks like leaves
saving plastic bottles in conserving
sawdust is processed wood
scales measure weight
scales would indicate if someone was overweight
scars are evidence of harm to living things
scars are results of an incident
scars can be given from burns
scatterer is disperser
science fair volcanoes use baking soda and vinegar reactions
scientists are experimenting to develop microbes that can live off surplus electricity and CO2
scientists are experts in a field of study
scientists invent things
scorch is burning
scorching is another word for hot
scorching is burning
scorching logs are on fire
scorching power is heat energy
scorching temperatures are heat
scottish folds are cats, and cats enjoy human company
scrap yards use powerful electromagnets
scratches leave lines
scratching is done by using pressure in order to leave marks
screeching is a sound emitted
screws attach things together
scrubbing a toilet is a chore
sea anemones are cnidarias
sea anemones don't contain chloroplasts
sea cows need a lot of water to be comfortable
sea floor is bottom of the sea
sea hares live in water
sea horses are living creatures on Earth which require energy
sea park dolphins receive a lot of training to perform in shows
sea turtles lay many eggs
sea weed comes from the ocean
seals are semiaquatic mammals
seals learn to clap on command for treats
seamen need compasses
seared is burned with heat
searing is a type of cooking
searing is hot, a source of heat
seas are a body of water
seas are oceans
seasons are caused by the sun
seasons change as the earth rotates the sun
seaweed is an aquatic plant
sediment is rock
sedimentary formations are one type of rock
sedimentary rocks are found at the beach
seeding a new track is planting trees to be cut later
seeds are a flower's offspring
seeds are cased embryonic plants
seeds are hard
seeds are often dried and eaten
seeds can be on the outside of strawberries
seeds can be strawberry
seeds can cling to fur and clothing
seeds can get stuck to dogs in a field
seeds can grow into trees
seeds in a dish act as a feeder
seeds that grow have sprouted
seeing easier happens when things are enlarged
seeing eye dogs can visually observe things
seeing requires eyes
seismographs record the amplitude of the seismic waves
sense organs are part of the nervous system
seperating a tree from it's roots is to cut it down
setting a burner to maximum results in a temperature increase
several forest animal reproduce by eggs
sexual maturation happens in physical adulthood
shadows are directly opposite the sun's position
shaking your head requires muscles moving bones
shale is a sedimentary rock
shale is a sedimentary rock like limestone
shallows are warm waters
sharks and orcas compete for resources
sharks are carnivores
sharks are predators of octupuses
sharks have gills
shedding requires vacuuming to pick up hair
sheep herds are living organisms
shelled item is egg
shelter is a home
shelter is a protected space
shelter is protection
shingles are a part of buildings
shivering is when something quickly shakes
shoes can insulate
shoes have rubber soles, which are harmful to the environment when burned
shoots are stems
shopping bags are made of plastic
short daylight hours happen in northern winters
shorter showers conserve water
shorts are what is worn in hot temperatures such as deserts
shoving is pushing
showers are rain falling
showers kill good bacteria
shrimp are smaller than trees and large mammals
shrubbery is plants
shrubs are composed of plant cells
shuddering and body tremors are shivering
sidewalks are hard objects
sighing requires expelling CO2
signals deliver messages
silicate rocky shell is what the mantle of earth is comprised of
silos are used for storage
silt is sediment
silver spoons are shiny
singed means burned
six legged entities are insects too
skeletal system is made of bones
skidding wears down tires
skin is the outermost organ which protects the inner organs
skunks are living things
skunks are not optimal to eat
skunks have bad odors
skunks make bad odors
skylights are windows
skyrocketing is positive
slamming the breaks causes the car to skid
sledding only takes place on snow, which falls in the winter
sleep allows the body to rest fully
sleep is a way to rest
sleep time is night
sleep time is night time
sleeping hours are at night
sleepy time is night
sleet falls down from clouds
sleet is a form of precipitation
sleet is smaller hail
sleet, or ice, is slick
slicing an apple takes it from whole to pieces
sliding and skidding are the same
sliding is a motion
slop is pig food
slowing electricity is done by insulators like rubber
small animals include voles
small items like toys can be measured in a cylinder
smashing an object changes breaks it down
smoke stacks create pollution
smoking pollutes the air
smoothing can be an effect of erosion
snakes are cold blooded
snakes need hot lamps
snakes need little food
snapshots are a synonym for pictures
snow and frost are cold
snow is categorized as appearing like white powder
snow is ice precipitation
snow is solid water at lower temp
snow is white precipitation
snow monkeys are animals
snow reflects all color of light
snowy areas are cold environments
sobbing is a negative effect of harm
soda bottles are recyclable
soda can is made of aluminum
soda cans are made from aluminum
soda cans are recyclable
soda is a substance that changes flavor
sodium is salt, which keeps ice from melting as quickly
sodium is salt, which remains after salt water is evaporated
soil contains nutrients
soil contains the roots
soil is below a plant
soil is dirt
soil is found under grass
soil that is broken up is looser
solar calculators use solar energy to function
solar energy is required for life to be sustained
solar equipment runs on solar energy
solar panels are good conservation tools
solar panels are used in homes
solar panels convert absorbed sunlight
solar panels require a steady amount of sunshine to maintain their voltage
solar pumps run on sunshine
solar radiation is what makes sunlight hot
solar rays are sunlight
solar rays generate heat
solid wood is an opaque object
solids cannot be measured
solids have varying melting points
solo cups are plastic
some animals can see in full color at night in moonlight
some animals depend on trees for food
some biofuels are made from algae
some birds need energy from prey
some birds prefer warmer climates, and migrate to them
some birds use their feet to catch prey
some cars run on electricity
some characteristics are determind by the environment itself
some evolve to lay eggs instead of live births
some fish that lay eggs need salt water
some foods contain vitamin d
some forests are made up of cacti
some hares grow longer fur for winter
some instruments are played by flicking
some living things, such as rats and roaches, benefit from human activity
some lizards like some species of geckos live in tropical environments
some mammals are herbivores
some moths have wings that look like leaves
some need to develop skills to outrun predators
some of the earliest mirrors were made of certain types of rock
some people are killing rhinos and selling rhino horns to people who want them for health remedies
some people have used octopus ink for writing
some plants need warm light during the day
some sea life is very small
something can look different if it is viewed through a refraction
something crumpled is more round than flat
something is cooler when it has less heat
something matching the background is camouflaged
something that has a reactive charge is magnetic
something that is biotic is organic
something that's become misshapen with holes has a new shape and mass
something with more area with absorb more sun
sonar is helpful for finding lost objects
sound can vibrate things to break
sound is audible
sound is not made of molecules
sound is unable to be heard in a vacuum
sound vibrates
sounds of superior animals can deter predators
sources of water provide for organisms
south is the direction opposite of north
south is the opposite direction of north
sowing means to plant
space between areas is distance
sparrows are birds that eat berries
speakers in phone create sound
special dust is pollen
special straws filter water
speed equals distance divided by time
speed goes down due to friction
speed is needed to know how long it would take to drive somewhere
spending time on the road is a way to know how long driving is going on
spiders are small animals
spiders build webs, traps and hunt
spineless can refer to having no bones!
spinning tires are in motion
spoiled food often has mold, which is fungi
spraying windshield fluid decreases visibility while driving
spreading leaves out absorbs sunlight
spring is a season
springtime means it's warmer so less hair is needed
sprinkling means rain, which is precipitation
squashing means to crumple
squawks are sound
squids live deep in the ocean
squirrels are animals
squirrels bury nuts
squirrels don't eat animals
squirrels eat from trees
squirrels need to save food
stacked up sand is a sandbar when in water
stage after larva is pupa
stalactites are found in caves
stalactites grow on the ceiling.
stalling income is a lack of current income
stapler pins are metal
stars appear in different locations at dawn than at dusk
stars are a part of the sky
stars are astral beings
stars are balls of hydrogen found in space
stars are billions of miles away
stars are burning hydrogen shaped balls
stars are distant, though bright
stars are less visible in cities than in small towns
stars are placed differently as the earth revolves
stars that are visible depend on the earth's rotation
starvation happens when there is no food
starving is a negative impact
static means unchanged, mass is equal to weight
staying perky is surviving
steam condenses into a measurable liquid
steam condensing pools
steam evaporates from boiling water
steam is vapor particles
steel absorbs heat from warm things
steel can be a mirrored surface
steel conducts electricity efficiently
steel is an electrical conductor
steel is reusable
steel, copper, and aluminum are types of metal
steeper incline creates move force needed
stick bugs live on twigs and branches
sticks are pieces of branches, which form nests
stingy use is conservative use
stinky animals have bad odors
stomach acid breaks down food substances
stomping on a puppy is harmful to the puppy
stone and rocks are the same
stone is a rock
stone is rocks
stonefish camouflage
stones are destroyed in erosion
stones are rocks
stones are rocks, and iron is magnetic
stones are small rocks
stones become smoother when they are weathered
stones crumpling are rocks folding
stopping means being still
storms are known dispersers
storms come from rain and cloudy weather
storms mean clouds are present
stormy weather causes storms
stormy weather is often paired with thunder and lightning
stoves are found in the kitchen
stovetops and ovens add heat to things
straight is west when right is north
straight solids are easiest to measure by tape
straight up means directly overhead
strawberries are buds before they are berries
strawberries are plants and plants are producers
strawberries grow from white flowers
straws in water appear to be misaligned because of refraction
strength is the capacity to withstand great force or pressure
striking flint is used to start fires
strong fans cool air
stronger beings are generally in better health
stronger gravity means an increase of gravity
stuff is an object
subways are a form of transportation
succulents are plants
sucrose is sugar
suffering is a negative impact
suffering is a result of harm
sugar can dissolve quicker then limestone
sugar carmalizes in the pie
sugar is a source for sustenance
sugar is a substance
sugar is crystallized carbohydrates
sugar is found in plants
sugar is in a tangerine
sugar is in plants
sugars are carbohydrates
suit of armor is metal
summer is 6 months after Christmas
summer is after spring
summer is in the northern hemisphere in June
summer is the opposite in southern hemisphere
summer is the warmest part of the year
summer is warm and sunny
summerlike is warm
sun involves orbit
sun is hot
sun setting earlier means shorter days and less daylight
sunbeam is light
sunbeams are composed of sunlight
sunbeams are sunlight
sunflowers are a renewable resource
sunflowers are plants
sunlight causes steering wheels to be extremely hot in the summer
sunlight comes from the fiery gas giant our planet orbits
sunlight gives energy
sunlight is a source of solar energy
sunlight is needed for photosynthesis
sunlight is nutriment for plants
sunlight is solar energy
sunlight takes 8.3 minutes to reach Earth from the sun
sunlight, water and wood are renewable
sunshine has thermal energy
supply attempts to meet demand
surfers prefer high tide
surrounding a valley is commonly a mountain range which is high
sustainable is renewable
sustenance is food
sustenance is food material
sustenance is nutrients
sustenance is required for a healthy animal
sustenance is the basic form of food
sustenance results in a species thriving
swamps are a watery place
swans are mothers
sweat comes out of the skin
sweat glands produce sweat
sweat is a liquid
sweat is fluid coming from pores
sweat makes you wet and smelly
sweating lowers body temperature
swelling is filling to a higher level
swelling seas are a part of the tide
sweltering means uncomfortably hot
sweltering weather is very hot
swimsuits are worn in June in the northern hemisphere
switches are branches of wood
switches can turn off lights
switching crops every so often takes less nutrients from the soil
swordbills have long beaks
swordfish use its fins to move quickly through water
swords are made from metal which comes from ore
swords are made of carbon steel
swords conduct electricity.
sync means get in line with
table fans use electricity
tables are a surface
taffy can be scratched with a fingernail
taffy can be torn easily
taillights would get dimmer the further a car drove away
taking apart leads to pieces
talc is a mineral
talc is found in soil
talc streaks
tall areas are mountains
talons are claws
tape measures can be used to measure meters
tapes have graduated markings for units
teak is a raw material
tearing a private document changes it into little pieces
tectonic expression is the action of an earthquake
tectonic plate movement causes eartquakes
tectonic plates are in the dirt and ground
tectonic plates are stony
tectonics is the act of a tectonic plate moving
teeth are made of bones
teeth quality is inherited
telephones contain microphones and speakers
telephones have magnets
telescopes and magnifying glasses make things larger
telescopes use electromagnetic radiation to function
telescopic lenses get up close
televisions get hot over time
temp changes are part of seasons
temp is considering degrees
temperature can be measured in a rectum
temperature is natural
temps rising is an increase in temperature
tender leaf buds are the edible part of a tree
tepees are shelter
tepid means slightly warm
terminated is destroyed
texas is south
thawing temp is when something melts
the Earth absorbs sunlight.
the Earth is a planet
the Earth orbits the sun
the Earth orbits the sun once per year
the Esophagus is part of the digestive system
the Grand Canyon is a large crevasse
the Rockies in America are little more than stacks of gravel due to weathering
the South Pole is a cold environment
the ability to reproduce is considered a sign of adulthood
the air in it is gas
the apex has an elevation greater than 35,000 ft
the arctic has snow year round
the arctic is a cold environment
the arctic is cold
the arctic is in the north
the arm is made of muscle and bone
the atmosphere is gas layers
the atmosphere is the air surrounding the planet Earth
the bad odor is made from sulfur-containing analog of an alcohol
the bat is hitting the ball
the beginning stage is reproduction
the body digests nutriment, which is food
the body is a humans physical being
the bottom of a mountain has lowered elevation
the brain is a large collection of neurons
the brown colors of a fawn allow it to blend in with its environment in Autumn
the car is travelling toward the person
the carnation is larger, so pollinators will be more attracted to it over a smaller flower
the cell membrane separates the interior of the cell from the outside
the closer the larger the view
the closest body in space to the earth is the moon
the closest star provides light energy
the cold blooded aspect lets the amphibian hibernate
the color black absorbs more light
the color pallete decides how light an objects color is
the cornea takes in light to the eye
the countryside would have the least light pollution
the crust is just above the mantle
the decomposed organism is used the nutrients it leaves behind
the deer are nutition because they are prey
the desert gets cold at night
the destruction of mountains over time creates soil
the difference between hot inside and cold outside causes the a burst bulb
the different phases of the moon are created by the earths shadow
the digestive system turns food into fat to keep for later when not used
the distribution of warmness is heating
the driver's goal is to speed up, wind prevents that
the ear is our hearing organ
the earth changes it's tilt during season change
the earth has less mass than the sun
the earth is a globe which circles the sun, a star, once a year
the earth is a human planet
the earth is covered by a crust of stone
the earth moves as it orbits the sun
the earth only has four layers
the earth orbits
the earth orbits the sun
the earth shakes during an earthquake
the ember produce a exothermic reaction
the environment is our ecosystem
the environment of something is whats immediately surrounding it
the epidermis is the skin
the equator is in between the north and the south
the equinoxes occur at opposite times of the year
the femur is a bone
the filament converts the energy in a light bulb
the flat appendages on organisms that give off oxygen are leaves
the floating arrow is iron and the northern axis is the north pole
the food pyramid requires producers
the formula for area is length x width x height
the globe, our earth, shifts on its axis
the gobi desert is desert
the ground affect things touching it
the ground is the surface of the Earth which has rocks comprised of elements
the ground warms as seasons change from winter to spring
the heart is a pump
the heart never sleeps
the heat energy is transferred to the food
the heating element in a toaster is a thermal conductor
the horizon is also known as the skyline
the human frame contains bones
the humans outer layer is the skin
the initial state of lava is very hot
the last layer is the outer core
the lava starts out at very high temperatures
the lens focuses light through augmentation
the life cycle process involves passing bodily traits
the liquid released by sweat glands is sweat
the location where the sun shines most directly on the Earth is the equator
the loss of particles results in reduced size
the mantle is earth's second layer and contains much iron
the mass of a planet can be measured in kilograms
the moon also contains craters
the moon doesn't have an atmosphere
the moon effects the tides
the moon goes through all of the different phases each month
the moon has less gravity than Earth
the moon has lower gravity
the moon illuminates earth at night
the moon is a satellite
the moon is a satellite without much air in our solar system
the moon is an astral night light
the moon is earth's natural satellite
the moon is earth's satellite
the moon is large and lights the night sky
the moon is our one and only satellite
the moon is white
the moon moves via the Earth's gravity
the moon orbits the Earth
the moon reflects from the sun
the moon revolves around the earth which revolves around sun
the moon spins in a revolution
the most daylight can be had in the season of Summer
the mother of its future children would be its mate
the mouth and anus are parts of the digestive system, which absorbs nutrients from food
the mouth takes in food
the movement between plates is less than a minute
the nearest star causes changes over time
the nervous system is found in vertebrates
the north star never changes position
the northern hemisphere is the opposite dealing with weather
the object is the substance
the ocean absorbs a large portion of solar energy
the ocean is a liquid deluged with sodium chloride, which is the chemical name for salt
the ocean is on the Earth
the ocean is salty water
the ocean is the best place to find tides
the ocean is the lowest point on earth.
the offspring of frogs are young amphibians and fish breathe through gills
the only star the earth orbits is the sun
the outer casing or bark of the tree expands once a year and leaves a ring when it does
the outer covering is a layer
the pancreas is an internal organ
the passage of time takes place over long periods of time
the pathway is complete when there is full connection the whole path
the person sitting next to you has a plate that is closer to you
the pits in the mentos give a contact are for the cola to release it radical oxygen molecule
the planet spinning causes the star movement appearance
the pool has cool water and the jacuzzi has warm water
the pull of a planet is caused by gravity
the pupa stage is when the insect's wings first start to form
the reflected light from a mirror allows someone to see themselves
the resistance created by the opposing currents combining creates a bright light
the result of the chemical reaction from the heat is vapor
the retina is the optic disk
the ring of fire is under the ocean immersed lava vent are volcanoes
the root structure provides support for the tree
the running bull is a moving object
the saxophone was invented by Sax
the season with the most direct sunlight is summer.
the sensory system is composed of nerves
the sharpest side of a decline will have water falling over it first
the size of the shadow
the skies are black when the weather is stormy
the sky is a large area filled with air
the sky is bright in sunny weather
the sky is filled with gray clouds during storms
the smallest cactus species is the Blossfeldia Liliputana
the solar rays are very bright
the southern division of the earth is a hemisphere
the southern hemisphere is below the equator
the spinal cord is a nerve and nerve cells are electrically excitable
the stars are visible at night
the strongest laser light can burn skin
the sun can be blocked by a cloud
the sun can be blocked by opaque material
the sun can cause high temps
the sun closeness to earth cause seasons
the sun does not revolve around anything
the sun gives vitamin D
the sun heats the earth throughout the day, that heat is stored in the crust
the sun is a central star which Saturn orbits
the sun is a producer of heat
the sun is a source of heat
the sun is a star
the sun is a star with great mass
the sun is a very large object
the sun is a yellow dewarf
the sun is a yellow dwarf
the sun is a yellow dwarf star
the sun is an astral gas ball
the sun is an astral star
the sun is in the sky
the sun is our closest star
the sun is our only yellow star
the sun is the closest star
the sun is the closest star to earth
the sun is the largest star in the solar system
the sun is the source of solar energy
the sun outputs solar energy which will defrost frozen substances
the sun produces more heat when directly overhead
the sun provides solar energy and a four leaf clover is a producer
the sun rises and set only once in twenty four hours
the sun rising, setting and rising again is one full day
the sun travels fast enough for the eye to perceive over time
the sun's gravity causes the planets to revolve around it
the support is made from small structures
the surfaces of a space craft glow red on re-entry
the switch moves the metal to close it
the thin membrane which surrounds a cell is its cell membrane
the third rock from the sun is earth, more than 69% inclueds 70%
the ticker is the heart
the top half of the globe is the norther hemisphere
the top layer of soil contains the most nutrients where I hike
the torso is part of the body
the trunk is a tree's stem
the trunk of a tree carries nutrients from the roots to the branches and leaves
the tundra is very cold
the vaginal canal is muscular
the vaporization of water is evaporation
the vision organ is the eye
the water heater holds hot water for showers
the western and eastern United States have very different climates
the wet planet is earth
the wilderness is far from any city
the wind is a force that acts on objects
the winter solstice is marked by lowered temperature
the winter solstice is the shortest day of the year and the summer solstice is the longest day of the year
the world is a planet
the yellow dwarf in the sky is our sun
their ears recieve short radio pulses showing them their prey
their skin has darkened to protect from radiation sickness
there are 1,440 minutes in one day
there are 1440 minutes in a day
there are 24 hours in a day
there are 28 days in February
there are 365 days in a standard year
there are 4 seaons
there are 52 weeks in a year
there are 7 days in a week
there are downpours during some storms
there are four seasons in a year
there are less sunlight hours in December than the rest of the year
there are multiple hours in a day
there are no clouds during sunny weather
there are seven days in a week
there are three months in each season
there are twelve months in a year
there are two receptors one for sour and one for sweet sucrose is sweet
there is a difference in precipitation between environments
there is a lot of heat in a desert
there is a lot of ice in the arctic environment because a lot of the Arctic Ocean is frozen
there is endless wind
there is increased pressure deep within the earth
there is less daylight in december in the new york
there is less water for plants in a desert so less plants grow
there is no oxygen on Saturn's rings for the respiratory system to use
there needs to be a medium for the sound wave
thermal conduction happens faster with metal objects
thermal conductors let heat pass efficiently through them
thermal insulators can be installed in dog houses and etc to keep pets warm
thermal insulators retain heat in a warm place from losing heat to the outdoors
thermal release in exothermic
thermographs measure temperature
they will increase without our help
thick feathers are an adaption for survival
thick fur is an adaptation used to survive in cold places
thicken and condense are the same
thicker skin provides warmth
thin animals have showing bones under skin
things changing is a part of the earth changing
things passed down are made to endure
things roll more slowly where there is more friction
things that stopped breathing are dead
things with strong gravity have magnitude
thirteen weeks is approximately three months
this happens from parent to child
this is the hottest part of the day
three meals a day is standard for human nourishment
three per season
thrust can work outside of atmosphere
thrust occurs when something is pushed
thrust pushes against the ground
tidal energy is rarely used
tillage causes erosion of soil
tilling the ground makes the soil loose
tilts are measured by their degree of angle
timber companies maintain lumber yards where they hire sawyers to buck the wood
timber companies make rulers
timber companies use industrial saws
timber is tree products
timberland is a forest
timberland is forest
time passing allows for rock erosion
tin is a conductor
tin is a metal
tinted glasses have tinted lenses
titanium is a metal
to ascend is to rise
to avoid eye harm wear protection
to be augmented is to increase
to be gigantic is to be large
to change location is to move
to conceal is to camouflage
to decrease is to go down
to deliquesce is to become a liquid
to eat creatures is to predate
to enlarge is to make bigger
to gasify is become evaporateed
to get melty is to melt
to hatch is to emerge
to have a poor impact is a negative impact
to illuminate is to use light energy
to incinerate is part of combustion
to increase in altitude is to be lifted
to know the area of a rectangle, you must know the length of the sides
to lessen is to decrease
to liquify is to melt
to measure a room for carpet you need to measure distance
to much movement can wear livings things out
to objects colliding creates sound through vibration
to pass away is to die
to plummet is to decrease
to propagate is to breed in order to increase numbers
to putrefy is to decompose
to subside is to decrease
to unattract is to repel
to understand is to comprehend
toast is made using heat
toasters are a household kitchen appliance
toasters are electrical
toasters brown their target items
toasty is warm
toasty is warm, which filaments get as lights are turned on
toddlers are human children
tomatoes are a fruit
tomatoes are usually red
too many deer leads to not enough food for individuals
too many organisms reproducing can lead to overpopulation
too much rain leads to flooding
tornadoes are natural occurrences that can break stones
tornados cause weathering
tot be polar opposite is to be magnetic
towns already have homes built in them
toy submarine are filled with baking soda
traffic accidents can produce large amounts of heat
trail mix is an example of a mixture
trains use coal
transparent is clear
transport is moving food
transportation devices often cause pollution
transporting seeds, such as beans, disperses them
trash that can be used for a new purpose is recyclable
traveling around a thing is a revolution
traveling cars are moving
tree land is a forest
tree pips are seeds, such as acorns
tree zones are forests
trees and vines are plants
trees are a part of the ground, which shakes during an earthquake
trees are a raw material in all wood and paper products
trees are a type of plant
trees are not a pollutant
trees are planted on earth day
trees are plants
trees develop by using nutrients
trees falling is a type of habitat destruction
trees packed close together depict a dense forest
trees produce timber
trees start as seeds
trees that tower over the ground would be quite tall
trees used for dams have been gnawed down
trembling happens in earthquakes
trembling is shivering
trilobytes are fossils
tropical regions are relatively warm
tropical storms are the begin of a hurricane
truck beds are open to sunlight
tsunamis are a type of natural disaster
tsunamis are natural events
tugboats apply a continuous motion.
tumbling machines weather stones
tuna are predators of anchovies
tundra are cold
tundra is an ecosystem
tundras are cold
turbines can produce continuous power from wind
turf is grass
turning a crank is mechanical energy
turning bottles into a t-shirt is creating something new from a recyclable
turtles instinctually seek out the sea after hatching
twelve months is one year, or 365 days
twelve weeks is three months
twenty pounds is less weight than twenty four pounds
twinkie production makes waste
twinkies are food
two days are 48 hours
two drinks together is a solution
two forces moving in the same direction will cause movement
two forks can have the same charge
tyrannosaurus rex were carnivores
umbrellas are needed when it will rain
unclean water is unsafe
underground collisions are produced by earthquakes
undifferentiated cells change into specialized tissues
uneven heating is unevenly distributed
unfreezing means it warmed up
unhatched chicks are eggs
unicycles are a type of bicycle
united atoms compose molecules
unliving is dead
unstable material on a hill is a landslide
unsustainable farming practices is a damaging change to an environment
unwell is ill
upper hemisphere pole has low temp even during daytime
upper portion of earth is the northern hemisphere
uptick is increase
use of fossil fuels like boating increases atmospheric CO2
using for new purposes is a way to reuse a material
using something for new purposes makes it reusable
using sparsely is using very little at a time
utility is the use of something
uv light can burn
vaccines are injected with sharp metal objects
vaccines contain elements of the illness they fight against
vaccines only help when they're used
valleys were formed by rock folding
vanes are rotating flat surfaces
vanilla is a flavor
vaporization is the first stage of evaporation
variable is adaptable
varied homes are ecosystems
variety of planted crops shows a rotation
various weather means various seasons
vast green fields are grassy spaces
vegetable oil is an example of an alternative fuel
vegetation is plants
vehicles can be cars
veins are a part of the circulation system
velocity is speed
velvety rocks are smooth
venison is a meat
viable and required things are resources
vibrant plumage would be a colorful part of a bird
vibrating strings cause wood to resonate
viewing requires sight
vinegar is oxidized acohol
vinegar is very acidic
vinegar reacts with several things
violas make sound
violas vibrate air
violins use bows to produce vibrations in the strings
vipers are poisonous snakes
vitality extinguishing is dying
vitamin d is fat soluble
vittles is food
vocalizing requires sound
volcanoes are a part of natural geological processes
volcanoes are hot and granite is a rock
volcanoes can be active for years
volcanoes have heat and pressure
volcanoes spew hot molten rock
volcanoes underwater are difficult to see
vole populations decrease as they are eaten more frequently
voles are seed eating animals
voles dig tunnels in soil
voles have fur
volume is an amount
volume refers to amount of space something occupies, such as the inside of a container
volume tells size
vomiting shows ill health
vultures are scavengers
vying means in competition with one another
waking hours are during the day
walking instead of driving reduces pollutants
walking is moving
wall switches can control lights
wall wart transformers have electrical current running through them
warm blooded creatures often have fur
warm climates are in tropical areas
warm rays come from the sun
warm rooms are comfortable in winter
warm weather can cause moist things to dry out
warming food is cooking
warmness is connected to temperature
warmness is heat
warmth can come external to the animal
warmth is a byproduct of a lightbulb
warmth is heat
washing face is learned behavior
washing removes this bacteria
waste attracts raccoons
waste is a type of pollution
waste is toxic
waste will pollute habitats
watching is making observations
water adjusts sediment by moving it
water amounts can be measured to be more after rainfall
water and flowers are crucial resources to pollinating insects
water and steam are the same substance
water becomes agitated as it reaches it's boiling point
water can be carried by gravity
water can be drunk
water can be everywhere with enough rainfall
water can be frozen into shapes
water can be reused
water comes from water sources
water comes in droplets
water condensates on the inside of a window
water condenses on cold soda cans
water content in plants is controlled by transpiration
water droplets on a pot lid is a result of condensation
water evaporates from the sun throughout the day
water flow limiters reduce the amount of water wasted
water flows in the direction of safety
water foul are duck's which are food
water from the sky is rain
water has motion
water in a basement is away from the sun's heat
water in the air becomes rain or snow
water is H2O in a liquid state
water is a liquid
water is a natural resource
water is a renewable resource that can be collected in buckets
water is also known as H2O
water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen
water is drawn from the air and collects on the glass
water is emptied from a source as it evaporates
water is less dense than honey
water is likely to be hotter in the form of coffee
water is liquid
water is represented by two hydrogen and 1 oxygen molecules
water is sparse in desert environments
water leaks from clouds
water lost during activity can be replaced by taking in water
water molecules are made of two hydrogen atoms and an oxygen atom
water on land is fresh and in the seas is salty
water refracting light creates a natural prism
water that absorbs solar energy evaporates and forms clouds
water travels in vessels within the plant
water travels quickly via creeks
water travels quickly via rivers
water types mix well
water vapor in the atmosphere forms rain clouds
water vapor is everywhere
water vibrations move across all of the water even very far from where they started
water when frozen and warmed melts to liquid
water will freeze in a freezer
waterfowl lay eggs
watermelon has seeds
watermelon is a berry
watermelon is not a grain
watery is moisture
wax is a source of fuel
wax on cardboard keeps out water
waxworms are bugs
we are trying to find alternatives to non reusable/renewable resources
we breathe in the atmosphere
weak white blood cells cause vulnerability to pathogens
wearing down stones is weathering
weather often varies by season and time of day
weather related degradation is weathering
weathering breaks down one material into another
weathering is when a plant's roots slowly breaks down rocks
weathering occurs over a length of time
webbing is extra skin on feet
weight is a prime example of non-contact force
weight is based on gravity and mass
weight is pressure
weight of clouds cause rain
weighted dips an exercise
wet means moist
wet planets, like earth, have more water than land
wetness is moisture
wetsuits are for swimming
whales and cats don't have the same food source
whales are living things
whales live in water
whales need oxygen
wheels revolve around a shaft
when a canyon has started forming more recently it's not as deep
when a habitat can't support animals many animals will leave and go elsewhere
when a hemisphere is cooler that means its winter
when an animal wins the competition for resources it has out competed the other animals
when ice melts it turns into water
when it's cloudy during the day, you could say it's gloomy
when its wet, excess water can happen
when liquid freezes it hardens
when no dominant genes are present the recessive trait will be visible
when precipitation freezes it can form dangerous hail
when resistance occurs, friction occurs
when resources go down, can be caused by over reproduction
when the Earth's axis is away from the sun it is winter
when the earth's plates grind against each other it causes an earthquake
when the number of trees decrease, more sunlight hits the floor of the forest
when the sky is dark, it is probably going to rain
when the sun is overhead, shadows disappear
when there are no clouds it is sunny
when your organs fail, you die
whether the moon is full depends on the week
whisker length is inherited
white objects are blinding
white rabbits blend in to snowy environments
white reflects the most light
whiteouts are snowy
whitetail dear live in temperate forests
wide, smooth leaves would be flat
wildcats are mammals
wilderness is woods
wildfires kill fire sensitive plants, thus increasing the material available for decomposers
wildflower kernels are seeds
willows are plants
wind and snow means it's cold outside
wind can be a gust or breeze
wind can blow a hat off of someone's head
wind can create energy, so solar heating causes wind energy also
wind energy is known as clean energy
wind exerts force
wind is a force
wind is a force caused by interaction with an air mass
wind is a source of renewable energy
wind is inanimate
wind is renewable
wind is used for heating and cooling homes now
wind powers things
wind uses force to blow
windmill need no other form of power to function other then wind
windmills harness wind
windmills harvest wind to create energy
windmills make renewable resources
windshields are glass
windy conditions whip materials in the air
wine is a liquid
wine is liquid and measured in volume
winter begins in December and ends in March
winter is a season
winter is a season that occurs once a year
winter is in December
winter is the coldest season with longer darkness
winter months are cool
winter months are when areas are distant from the sun
winter occurs when the hemisphere is facing away from the sun
winter solstice is when there is more darkness than light
winters are cold
wires are an example of this
wires are connections
with less food animals will start to die
with less molecules present the pressure of the air decreases
with the increase of light pollution it will become harder to see the stars
without a cocoon, there is no pupa
without changing mass, a thing will be measured the same each time
without others is solitary
without the right food, animals can't be healthy
without wind and rain any marks left on asteroids can potentially last for thousands of years if not longer
wolf pups are the offspring of wolves
wolves and bears both eat the same prey, salmon
wolves are carnivores
wolves are consumers
wolves are predators and ibex are prey
wolves are predators that catch deer
wolves eat bunnies
wolves eat rabbits
wolves eat rabbits to get energy to survive
wolves live in dens
wombats are living things
wombs allow developing inside of a mother
wood beams are a raw material required in the process of building a log cabin
wood can come from pallets
wood is a direct source, a raw material from trees
wood is opaque
wood will dry if left in the sun
woody organisms are examples of producers and deer are consumers
worms are decomposers
worms are decomposers, and are wriggly
worms dry up and die in the heat
worms eat decay
worms eat decaying organisms
worms make tunnels
wrenches are metal
wrinkled is a texture
xylem moves water in plants like bushes
yanking a metal to a magnet is magnetic
yanking something towards a planet is gravitational pull increasing
yelling loudly in a canyon causes reverberation (echoing)
yogurt is a dairy product
you can avoid harm to the eyes from splashing chemicals by keeping them covered
you can burn something with a hot object
you can inherit things from your mother
you can not run out of wind
you can see further on top of a mountain
you can't see the moon during the new moon
you have to bring your own water to places without it
you need an effective immune system to be healthy
you need gas to fill a beach ball
you need heat to thaw something
you need to get warm if you have hypothermia
you wear shorts in the summer
younglings are offspring
your elbow is a body part and a hot stove has a lot of heat energy
your hide is your skin
zapping energy is electricity
zapping power is electrical
zapping power is electricity
zebras are animals
zebras can be disguised against one another
zero is nothing
zipping powered is electric
zooplankton do not have respiration systems
zoos are public exhibitions for viewing
zoos hold animals outside of nature
